
------------------------------------------------------------------------


    Appendix A How to refer to WCAG 2.0 from other documents

The following examples show how to reference WCAG 2.0 in various
situations. For additional guidance, see Referencing and Linking to WAI
Guidelines and Technical Documents
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/intro/linking.html>.

Please note that the following language for referencing WCAG 2.0 can be
inserted into your own documents.


      Information references

When referencing WCAG 2.0 in an informational fashion, the following
format can be used.

/Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0, W3C World Wide Web Consortium
Recommendation XX Month Year
(http://www.w3.org/TR/200X/REC-WCAG20-20081211/, Latest version at
http://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20/)/

------------------------------------------------------------------------


      When referring to WCAG 2.0 from another standard with a "should"
      statement

When referencing WCAG 2.0 from within a *should* statement in a standard
(or advisory statement in a regulation), then the full WCAG 2.0 should
be referenced. This would mean that all three levels of WCAG 2.0 should
be considered but that none are required. The format for referencing
WCAG 2.0 from a "should" statement therefore, is:

/Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0, W3C World Wide Web Consortium
Recommendation XX Month Year.
(http://www.w3.org/TR/200X/REC-WCAG20-20081211/)/

------------------------------------------------------------------------


      When referring to WCAG 2.0 from another standard with a "shall or
      must" statement

When citing WCAG 2.0 as part of a requirement (e.g., a *shall or must *
statement in a standard or regulation), the reference must include the
specific parts of WCAG 2.0 that are intended to be required. When
referencing WCAG 2.0 in this manner, the following rules apply:

 1.

    Conformance at any level of WCAG 2.0 requires that all of the Level
    A Success Criteria be met. References to WCAG 2.0 conformance cannot
    be for any subset of Level A.

 2.

    Beyond Level A, a "shall or must" reference may include any subset
    of provisions in Levels AA and AAA. For example, "/all of Level A
    and [some specific list of Success Criteria in Level AA and Level
    AAA]/" be met.

 3.

    If Level AA conformance to WCAG 2.0 is specified, then all Level A
    and all Level AA Success Criteria must be met.

 4.

    If Level AAA conformance to WCAG 2.0 is specified, then all Level A,
    all Level AA, and all Level AAA Success Criteria must be met.

    /Note 1: /It is not recommended that Level AAA conformance ever be
    required for entire sites as a general policy because it is not
    possible to satisfy all Level AAA Success Criteria for some content.

    /Note 2: /The sets of Success Criteria defined in WCAG are
    interdependent and individual Success Criteria rely on each other's
    definitions in ways which may not be immediately obvious to the
    reader. Any set of Success Criteria must include all of the Level A
    provisions.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


      Examples

*To cite only the Level A Success Criteria (Single-A conformance):*

/Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0, W3C World Wide Web Consortium
Recommendation XX Month Year, Level A Success Criteria.
(http://www.w3.org/TR/200X/REC-WCAG20-20081211/)/

*To cite the Levels A and AA Success Criteria (Double-A conformance):*

/Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0, W3C World Wide Web Consortium
Recommendation XX Month Year, Level A & Level AA Success Criteria.
(http://www.w3.org/TR/200X/REC-WCAG20-20081211/)/

*To cite Level A Success Criteria and selected Success Criteria from
Level AA and Level AAA: *

/Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0, W3C World Wide Web Consortium
Recommendation XX Month Year, Level A Success Criteria plus Success
Criteria 1.x.x, 2.y.y, â€¦ 3.z.z.
(http://www.w3.org/TR/200X/REC-WCAG20-20081211/)/

*Example of use of a WCAG reference in a "shall or must" statement.*

All Web content on publicly available Web sites shall conform to Web
Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0, W3C World Wide Web Consortium
Recommendation XX Month Year, Level A Success Criteria plus Success
Criteria 1.2.3, 2.4.5-6, 3.1.2
(http://www.w3.org/TR/200X/REC-WCAG20-20081211/)

------------------------------------------------------------------------


      Referring to content from WCAG support documents

Techniques, which are listed in Understanding WCAG 2.0 and described in
other supporting documents, are not part of the normative WCAG 2.0
Recommendation and should not be cited using the citation for the WCAG
2.0 Recommendation itself. References to techniques in support documents
should be cited separately.

Techniques can be cited based on the individual Technique document or on
the master WCAG 2.0 Techniques document. For example, the technique
"Using alt attributes on img elements" could be cited as

/"Using alt attributes on img elements," W3C World Wide Web Consortium
Note. (URI: {URI of technique}) /

or

/W3C World Wide Web Consortium (200x): WCAG2.0 HTML Techniques (URI:
{URI of HTML Techniques})/

*Techniques are not designed to be referenced as "required"* from any
standard or regulation.Standards and regulations should not make any
specific technique mandatory, though they may choose to recommend
techniques.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    Appendix B Documenting Accessibility Support for Uses of a Web
    Technology

The documentation of accessibility support for uses of a Web technology
provides the information needed to determine whether it is possible to
satisfy the WCAG 2.0 Success Criteria for a particular environment.

Accessibility Support documentation for uses of a Web technology
includes the following information:

  *

    The version or versions of the technology

  *

    For each user agent or plug-in that supports this version of the
    technology:

      o

        The version of the user agent or plug-in, including the
        operating system or platform

      o

        Ways of using the technology that are supported by the user
        agent; ideally, there are ways to meet all of the success
        criteria, but exceptions should be noted.

      o

        Known limitations of the user agent support for uses of the
        technology to meet Success Criteria

  *

    For each assistive technology that supports the Web technology:

      o

        The version of the assistive technology, including the operating
        system or platform

  *

    For each host user agent that is supported by this version of the
    assistive technology:

      o

        Ways of using the technology supported by the assistive
        technology for this user agent

      o

        Known limitations in the support of uses of the technology to
        meet success criteria when using the assistive technology with
        this user agent

Target environments are defined by the user agents and assistive
technologies available to its users. Documentation of accessibility
support involves detailed understanding of the ways to use functionality
of a technology to meet success criteria, and also of user agents and
assistive technology. Because of this, vendors and developers of Web
technologies and user agents are encouraged to provide this information
about the accessibility support of their products. Similarly, developers
and vendors of assistive technology are encouraged to provide this
information about the ways to use Web technologies that are supported by
their products. Authors should need to document the accessibility
supported ways to use a technology only when there is not reliable
documentation available from vendors or testing groups for those uses.

For a controlled environment, such as a corporate workplace, the user
agents and assistive technologies available may be a specific set of
versions of user agents on a specific set of platforms. To determine
whether uses of a Web technology are accessibility supported in a target
environment, an author checks that the user agents and assistive
technologies available are in the set of supported user agents and
assistive technologies listed for those uses in the Accessibility
Support documentation.

For a target environment like the Internet, authors may need to consider
a much larger set of user agents, including older versions, and on a
wider variety of platforms.

Environments that use different natural languages are different target
environments. For example, the accessibility-supported ways of using
technologies for an English language environment may differ from those
for an Arabic language environment, since there may be different user
agents and assistive technologies that support these languages.

The documentation includes version-specific information about all the
assistive technologies and all the user agents and the ways that they
interact with one another. If support in these user agents is similar,
it will be straightforward for an author to decide if a documented way
of using a technology is accessibility supported. If the uses supported
are different in different versions, authors can only rely on the uses
that are supported in the versions available to their users in
determining accessibility support.

If a way of using a technology is not relied upon for conformance, the
absence of accessibility support for that use does not prevent
conformance of the Web page. So if the unsupported use does not occur in
the content, or if there is a conforming version of that content
available, the Web page still conforms. For instance, lack of
accessibility support for interactive controls in a Web technology would
not prevent uses of the Web technology for non-interactive content that
are accessibility supported.


    Appendix C Understanding Metadata

This section discusses metadata techniques that can be employed to
satisfy WCAG 2.0 Success Criteria. For more information about metadata
see resources below.

At its most basic level, metadata is essentially 'data about data' and
is used to both describe and find resources.

Metadata is a powerful tool that can be used for describing Web pages
and accessible components of Web pages as well as associating alternate
versions of Web content to each other. These descriptions in turn allows
users to locate specific information they need or prefer.

In conjunction with WCAG, metadata can play a number of roles including:

 1.

    Metadata can be used to associate conforming alternate versions of
    Web pages with Web pages which do not conform, in order to allow
    users to find the conforming alternate version when they land on a
    non-conforming page that they cannot use.

 2.

    Metadata can be used to locate and also to describe alternate pages
    where there are multiple versions of a page which have been
    developed, especially where the alternate pages are optimized for
    individuals with different disabilities. The user can use the
    metadata both to locate the alternate versions and to identify
    characteristics of the versions, so that they can find the one that
    best meets their needs.

 3.

    In addition to being used for whole pages (as in #1 and #2 above),
    metadata can be used to describe alternate versions of subcomponents
    of a page. Again, the metadata can be used to find alternate
    versions of a Web page component as well as to get descriptions of
    the alternate versions ( if there are several) in order to determine
    which one would best meet the user's needs.


      Metadata Resources

Metadata descriptions often provide values from defined, agreed
vocabularies such as the resource's subject matter or its date of
publication, and are machine readable - software that understands the
metadata scheme in use can do useful tasks not feasible otherwise.
Typically, an object having metadata may have one or more such metadata
descriptions.

Well-known specifications (schemas) for metadata include:

  *

    Metadata Encoding and Transmission Standard (METS) scheme
    <http://www.loc.gov/standards/mets/>

  *

    Dublin Core Metadata Initiative (DCMI) terms for cross-disciplinary
    resources <http://dublincore.org/>

  *

    IEEE Standards <http://www.ieee.org/index.html>

There are some tools available to provide resource descriptions, or they
can be provided manually. The more easily the metadata can be created
and collected at point of creation of a resource or at point of
publication, the more efficient the process and the more likely it is to
take place.

Some examples include:

  *

    DC-dot <http://www.ukoln.ac.uk/metadata/dcdot/>

Accessibility metadata implementations include:

  *

    The Inclusive Learning Exchange (TILE) <http://barrierfree.ca/tile/>

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    Appendix D Acknowledgements

This publication has been funded in part with U.S. Federal funds from
the Department of Education, National Institute on Disability,
Independent Living, and Rehabilitation Research (NIDILRR), initially
under contract number ED-OSE-10-C-0067 and currently under contract
number HHSP23301500054C. The content of this publication does not
necessarily reflect the views or policies of the U.S. Department of
Education, nor does mention of trade names, commercial products, or
organizations imply endorsement by the U.S. Government.

Additional information about participation in the Web Content
Accessibility Guidelines Working Group (WCAG WG) can be found on the
Working Group home page <http://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/>.


      Participants of the WCAG WG active in the development of this
      document:

  *

    Paul Adam (Deque)

  *

    Kathleen Anderson

  *

    Jon Avila (SSB Bart Group)

  *

    Bruce Bailey (U.S. Access Board)

  *

    Laura Carlson

  *

    Louis Cheng (Google)

  *

    Michael Cooper (W3C)

  *

    Wayne Dick

  *

    Eric Eggert (W3C)

  *

    Michael Elledge

  *

    Detlev Fischer

  *

    John Foliot (Deque)

  *

    Loretta Guarino Reid (Google)

  *

    Jon Gunderson

  *

    Katie Haritos-Shea

  *

    Marc Johlic (IBM)

  *

    Barry Johnson (Deque)

  *

    Andrew Kirkpatrick (Adobe)

  *

    David MacDonald

  *

    Erich Manser (IBM)

  *

    James Nurthen (Oracle)

  *

    Joshue O Connor

  *

    Jan Richards

  *

    Alan Smith

  *

    Adam Solomon

  *

    Makoto Ueki

  *

    Gregg Vanderheiden

  *

    Kathleen Wahlbin

  *

    Can Wang (Zhejiang University)

  *

    Jason White (Educational Testing Service)

  *

    Kenny Zhang (W3C)

------------------------------------------------------------------------


      Other previously active WCAG WG participants and other
      contributors to WCAG 2.0 or supporting resources

Shadi Abou-Zahra, Jim Allan, Jenae Andershonis, Wilhelm Joys Andersen,
Andrew Arch, Avi Arditti, Aries Arditi, Jon Avila, Mark Barratt, Mike
Barta, Sandy Bartell, Kynn Bartlett, Chris Beer, Charles Belov, Marco
Bertoni, Harvey Bingham, Chris Blouch, Paul Bohman, Frederick Boland,
Denis Boudreau, Patrice Bourlon, Judy Brewer, Andy Brown, Dick Brown,
Doyle Burnett, Raven Calais, Ben Caldwell, Alastair Campbell, Laura
Carlson, Tomas Caspers, Roberto Castaldo, Sofia Celic-Li, Sambhavi
Chandrashekar, Mike Cherim, Jonathan Chetwynd, Wendy Chisholm, Alan
Chuter, David M Clark, Joe Clark, Darcy Clarke, James Coltham, Vivienne
Conway, Earl Cousins, James Craig, Tom Croucher, Pierce Crowell, Nir
Dagan, Daniel Dardailler, Geoff Deering, SÃ©bastien Delorme, Pete
DeVasto, Wayne Dick, Iyad Abu Doush, Sylvie Duchateau, Cherie Eckholm,
Roberto Ellero, Don Evans, Gavin Evans, Neal Ewers, Steve Faulkner,
Bengt Farre, Lainey Feingold, Wilco Fiers, Michel Fitos, Alan J.
Flavell, Nikolaos Floratos, Kentarou Fukuda, Miguel Garcia, P.J.
Gardner, Alistair Garrison, Greg Gay, Becky Gibson, Al Gilman, Kerstin
Goldsmith, Michael Grade, Karl Groves, Jon Gunderson, Emmanuelle
GutiÃ©rrez y Restrepo, Brian Hardy, Eric Hansen, Benjamin Hawkes-Lewis,
Sean Hayes, Shawn Henry, Hans Hillen, Donovan Hipke, Bjoern Hoehrmann,
Allen Hoffman, Chris Hofstader, Yvette Hoitink, Martijn Houtepen, Carlos
Iglesias, Jonas Jacek, Ian Jacobs, Phill Jenkins, Duff Johnson, Jyotsna
Kaki, Shilpi Kapoor, Leonard R. Kasday, Kazuhito Kidachi, Ken Kipness,
John Kirkwood, Jason Kiss, Johannes Koch, Marja-Riitta Koivunen, Maureen
Kraft, Preety Kumar, Kristjan Kure, Andrew LaHart, Gez Lemon, Chuck
Letourneau, AurÃ©lien Levy, Harry Loots, Scott Luebking, Tim Lacy, Jim
Ley, Alex Li, William Loughborough, Greg Lowney, N Maffeo, Mark
Magennis, Kapsi Maria, Luca Mascaro, Matt May, Sheena McCullagh, Liam
McGee, Jens Meiert, Niqui Merret, Jonathan Metz, Alessandro Miele,
Steven Miller, Mathew J Mirabella, Matt May, Marti McCuller, Sorcha
Moore, Mary Jo Mueller, Charles F. Munat, Robert Neff, Charles Nevile,
Liddy Nevile, Dylan Nicholson, Bruno von Niman, Tim Noonan, Sebastiano
Nutarelli, Graham Oliver, Sean B. Palmer, Sailesh Panchang, Devarshi
Pant, Nigel Peck, Anne Pemberton, David Poehlman, Ian Pouncey, Charles
Pritchard, Kerstin Probiesch, W Reagan, Adam Victor Reed, Chris Reeve,
Chris Ridpath, Lee Roberts, Mark Rogers, Raph de Rooij, Gregory J.
Rosmaita, Matthew Ross, Sharron Rush, Joel Sanda, Janina Sajka, Roberto
Scano, Gordon Schantz, Tim van Schie, Wolf Schmidt, Stefan Schnabel,
Lisa Seeman, Cynthia Shelly, Glenda Sims, John Slatin, Becky Smith,
Jared Smith, Andi Snow-Weaver, Neil Soiffer, Jeanne Spellman, Mike
Squillace, Michael Stenitzer, Diane Stottlemyer, Christophe Strobbe,
Sarah J Swierenga, Jim Thatcher, Terry Thompson, Justin Thorp, David
Todd, Mary Utt, Jean Vanderdonckt, Carlos A Velasco, Eric Velleman, Gijs
Veyfeyken, Dena Wainwright, Paul Walsch, Daman Wandke, Richard Warren,
Elle Waters, Takayuki Watanabe, LÃ©onie Watson, Gian Wild, David Wooley,
Wu Wei, Leona Zumbo.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    Appendix E References

ANSI-HFES-100-1988
    ANSI/HFS 100-1988, American National Standard for Human Factors
    Engineering of Visual Display Terminal Workstations, Section 6, pp.
    17-20.
ARDITI
    Arditi, A. (2002). Effective color contrast: designing for people
    with partial sight and color deficiencies. New York, Arlene R.
    Gordon Research Institute, Lighthouse International.
ARDITI-FAYE
    Arditi, A. and Faye, E. (2004). Monocular and binocular letter
    contrast sensitivity and letter acuity in a diverse ophthalmologic
    practice. Supplement to Optometry and Vision Science, 81 (12S), 287.
ARDITI-KNOBLAUCH
    Arditi, A. and Knoblauch, K. (1994). Choosing effective display
    colors for the partially-sighted. Society for Information Display
    International Symposium Digest of Technical Papers, 25, 32-35.
ARDITI-KNOBLAUCH-1996
    Arditi, A. and Knoblauch, K. (1996). Effective color contrast and
    low vision. In B. Rosenthal and R. Cole (Eds.) Functional Assessment
    of Low Vision. St. Louis, Mosby, 129-135.
CAPTCHA
    The CAPTCHA Project, Carnegie Mellon University. The project is
    online at http://www.captcha.net <http://www.captcha.net/>.
GITTINGS-FOZARD
    Gittings, NS and Fozard, JL (1986). Age related changes in visual
    acuity. Experimental Gerontology, 21(4-5), 423-433.
HARDING-BINNIE
    Harding G. F. A. and Binnie, C.D., Independent Analysis of the ITC
    Photosensitive Epilepsy Calibration Test Tape. 2002.
HEARING-AID-INT
    Levitt, H., Kozma-Spytek, L., & Harkins, J. (2005). In-the-ear
    measurements of interference in hearing aids from digital wireless
    telephones. Seminars in Hearing, 26(2), 87.
IEC-4WD
    IEC/4WD 61966-2-1: Colour Measurement and Management in Multimedia
    Systems and Equipment - Part 2.1: Default Colour Space - sRGB. May
    5, 1998.
ISO-9241-3
    ISO 9241-3, Ergonomic requirements for office work with visual
    display terminals (VDTs) - Part 3: Visual display requirements.
    Amendment 1.
I18N-CHAR-ENC
    "Tutorial: Character sets & encodings in XHTML, HTML and CSS," R.
    Ishida, ed., This tutorial is available at
    http://www.w3.org/International/tutorials/tutorial-char-enc/. 
KNOBLAUCH
    Knoblauch, K., Arditi, A. and Szlyk, J. (1991). Effects of chromatic
    and luminance contrast on reading. Journal of the Optical Society of
    America A, 8, 428-439.
LAALS
    Bakke, M. H., Levitt, H., Ross, M., & Erickson, F. (1999). Large
    area assistive listening systems (ALS): Review and recommendations
    (PDF)
    <http://search.naric.com/research/rehab/download.cfm?ID=101662>
    (Final Report. NARIC Accession Number: O16430). Jackson Heights, NY:
    Lexington School for the Deaf/Center for the Deaf Rehabilitation
    Research Engineering Center on Hearing Enhancement. 
sRGB
    "A Standard Default Color Space for the Internet - sRGB," M. Stokes,
    M. Anderson, S. Chandrasekar, R. Motta, eds., Version 1.10, November
    5, 1996. A copy of this paper is available at
    http://www.w3.org/Graphics/Color/sRGB.html.
UNESCO
    International Standard Classification of Education, 1997. A copy of
    the standard is available at
    http://www.unesco.org/education/information/nfsunesco/doc/isced_1997.htm.
WCAG20
    "Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0," B. Caldwell, M Cooper, L
    Guarino Reid, and G. Vanderheiden, eds., W3 Recommendation 12
    December 2008, http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/>. The latest version
    of WCAG 2.0 is available at http://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20/. 

