
------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Readable*:
    Understanding Guideline 3.1

    *Guideline 3.1: * Make text content readable and understandable.


      Intent of Guideline 3.1

The intent of this guideline is to allow text content to be read by
users and by assistive technology, and to ensure that information
necessary for understanding it is available.

People with disabilities experience text in many different ways. For
some the experience is visual; for some it is auditory; for some it is
tactile; for still others it is both visual and auditory. Some users
experience great difficulty in recognizing written words yet understand
extremely complex and sophisticated documents when the text is read
aloud, or when key processes and ideas are illustrated visually or
interpreted as sign language. For some users, it is difficult to infer
the meaning of a word or phrase from context, especially when the word
or phrase is used in an unusual way or has been given a specialized
meaning; for these users the ability to read and understand may depend
on the availability of specific definitions or the expanded forms of
acronyms or abbreviations. User agents, including speech-enabled as well
as graphical applications, may be unable to present text correctly
unless the language and direction of the text are identified; while
these may be minor problems for most users, they can be enormous
barriers for users with disabilities. In cases where meaning cannot be
determined without pronunciation information (for example, certain
Japanese Kanji characters), pronunciation information must be available
as well


      Advisory Techniques for Guideline 3.1 (not success criteria specific)

Specific techniques for meeting each Success Criterion for this
guideline are listed in the understanding sections for each Success
Criterion (listed below). If there are techniques, however, for
addressing this guideline that do not fall under any of the success
criteria, they are listed here. These techniques are not required or
sufficient for meeting any success criteria, but can make certain types
of Web content more accessible to more people.

  *

    Setting expectations about content in the page from uncontrolled
    sources (future link)

  *

    Providing sign language interpretation for all content (future link)

  *

    Using the clearest and simplest language appropriate for the content
    (future link)

  *

    Avoiding centrally aligned text (future link)

  *

    Avoiding text that is fully justified (to both left and right
    margins) in a way that causes poor spacing between words or
    characters (future link)

  *

    Using left-justified text for languages that are written left to
    right and right-justified text for languages that are written
    right-to-left (future link)

  *

    Limiting text column width (future link)

  *

    Avoiding chunks of italic text (future link)

  *

    Avoiding overuse of different styles on individual pages and in
    sites (future link)

  *

    Making links visually distinct (future link)

  *

    Using images, illustrations, video, audio, or symbols to clarify
    meaning (future link)

  *

    Providing practical examples to clarify content (future link)

  *

    Using a light pastel background rather than a white background
    behind black text (future link)

  *

    Avoiding the use of unique interface controls unnecessarily (future
    link)

  *

    Using upper and lower case according to the spelling rules of the
    text language (future link)

  *

    Avoiding unusual foreign words (future link)

  *

    Providing sign language versions of information, ideas, and
    processes that must be understood in order to use the content
    (future link)

  *

    Making any reference to a location in a Web page into a link to that
    location (future link)

  *

    Making references to a heading or title include the full text of the
    title (future link)

  *

    Providing easy-to-read versions of basic information about a set of
    Web pages, including information about how to contact the Webmaster
    (future link)

  *

    Providing a sign language version of basic information about a set
    of Web pages, including information about how to contact the
    Webmaster (future link)


    *Language of Page*:
    Understanding SC 3.1.1

    *3.1.1
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#meaning-doc-lang-id>
    Language of Page:* The default human language
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#human-langdef> of
    each Web page
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> can be
    programmatically determined
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#programmaticallydetermineddef>.
    (Level A)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that content
developers provide information in the Web page that user agents need to
present text and other linguistic content correctly. Both assistive
technologies and conventional user agents can render text more
accurately when the language of the Web page is identified. Screen
readers can load the correct pronunciation rules. Visual browsers can
display characters and scripts correctly. Media players can show
captions correctly. As a result, users with disabilities will be better
able to understand the content.

The default human language of the Web page is the default
text-processing language as discussed in Internationalization Best
Practices: Specifying Language in XHTML & HTML Content
<http://www.w3.org/TR/i18n-html-tech-lang/>. When a Web page uses
several languages, the default text-processing language is the language
which is used most. (If several languages are used equally, the first
language used should be chosen as the default human language.)

/Note: / For multilingual sites targeting Conformance Level A, the
Working Group strongly encourages developers to follow Success Criterion
3.1.2 as well even though that is a Level AA Success Criterion.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 3.1.1

This Success Criterion helps:

  *

    people who use screen readers or other technologies that convert
    text into synthetic speech;

  *

    people who find it difficult to read written material with fluency
    and accuracy, such as recognizing characters and alphabets or
    decoding words;

  *

    people with certain cognitive, language and learning disabilities
    who use text-to-speech software

  *

    people who rely on captions for synchronized media.


      Examples of Success Criterion 3.1.1

  *

    *Example 1. A Web page with content in two languages*

    A Web page produced in Germany and written in HTML includes content
    in both German and English, but most of the content is in German.
    The default human language is identified as German (de) by the lang
    attribute on the html element.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Internationalization Best Practices: Specifying Language in XHTML &
    HTML Content <http://www.w3.org/TR/i18n-html-tech-lang/>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 3.1.1 - Language of Page

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    H57: Using language attributes on the html element
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H57> (HTML)

 2.

    FLASH13: Using HTML language attributes to specify language in Flash
    content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH13> (Flash)

 3.

    PDF16: Setting the default language using the /Lang entry in the
    document catalog of a PDF document
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/PDF16> (PDF)

 4.

    PDF19: Specifying the language for a passage or phrase with the Lang
    entry in PDF documents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/PDF19> (PDF)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 3.1.1

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    SVR5: Specifying the default language in the HTTP header
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SVR5> (SERVER)

  *

    Using http or the Content-Language meta tag for metadata (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 3.1.1

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 3.1.1 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

Web page

    a non-embedded resource obtained from a single URI using HTTP plus
    any other resources that are used in the rendering or intended to be
    rendered together with it by a user agent
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>

    /Note 1: /Although any "other resources" would be rendered together
    with the primary resource, they would not necessarily be rendered
    simultaneously with each other.

    /Note 2: /For the purposes of conformance with these guidelines, a
    resource must be "non-embedded" within the scope of conformance to
    be considered a Web page.

    /Example 1: /A Web resource including all embedded images and media.

    /Example 2: /A Web mail program built using Asynchronous JavaScript
    and XML (AJAX). The program lives entirely at
    http://example.com/mail, but includes an inbox, a contacts area and
    a calendar. Links or buttons are provided that cause the inbox,
    contacts, or calendar to display, but do not change the URI of the
    page as a whole.

    /Example 3: /A customizable portal site, where users can choose
    content to display from a set of different content modules.

    /Example 4: /When you enter "http://shopping.example.com/" in your
    browser, you enter a movie-like interactive shopping environment
    where you visually move around in a store dragging products off of
    the shelves around you and into a visual shopping cart in front of
    you. Clicking on a product causes it to be demonstrated with a
    specification sheet floating alongside. This might be a single-page
    Web site or just one page within a Web site.

human language

    language that is spoken, written or signed (through visual or
    tactile means) to communicate with humans

    /Note: /See also sign language
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#sign-languagedef>.

programmatically determined (programmatically determinable)

    determined by software from author-supplied data provided in a way
    that different user agents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>,
    including assistive technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#atdef>, can extract
    and present this information to users in different modalities

    /Example 1: /Determined in a markup language from elements and
    attributes that are accessed directly by commonly available
    assistive technology.

    /Example 2: /Determined from technology-specific data structures in
    a non-markup language and exposed to assistive technology via an
    accessibility API that is supported by commonly available assistive
    technology.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Language of Parts*:
    Understanding SC 3.1.2

    *3.1.2
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#meaning-other-lang-id>
    Language of Parts:* The human language
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#human-langdef> of
    each passage or phrase in the content can be programmatically
    determined
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#programmaticallydetermineddef>
    except for proper names, technical terms, words of indeterminate
    language, and words or phrases that have become part of the
    vernacular of the immediately surrounding text. (Level AA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that user agents can
correctly present content written in multiple languages. This makes it
possible for user agents and assistive technologies to present content
according to the presentation and pronunciation rules for that language.
This applies to graphical browsers as well as screen readers, braille
displays, and other voice browsers.

Both assistive technologies and conventional user agents can render text
more accurately if the language of each passage of text is identified.
Screen readers can use the pronunciation rules of the language of the
text. Visual browsers can display characters and scripts in appropriate
ways. This is especially important when switching between languages that
read from left to right and languages that read from right to left, or
when text is rendered in a language that uses a different alphabet.
Users with disabilities who know all the languages used in the Web page
will be better able to understand the content when each passage is
rendered appropriately.

When no other language has been specified for a phrase or passage of
text, its human language is the default human language of the Web page
(see Success Criterion 3.1.1). So the human language of all content in
single language documents can be programmatically determined.

Individual words or phrases in one language can become part of another
language. For example, "rendezvous" is a French word that has been
adopted in English, appears in English dictionaries, and is properly
pronounced by English screen readers. Hence a passage of English text
may contain the word "rendezvous" without specifying that its human
language is French and still satisfy this Success Criterion. Frequently,
when the human language of text appears to be changing for a single
word, that word has become part of the language of the surrounding text.
Because this is so common in some languages, single words should be
considered part of the language of the surrounding text unless it is
clear that a change in language was intended. If there is doubt whether
a change in language is intended, consider whether the word would be
pronounced the same (except for accent or intonation) in the language of
the immediately surrounding text.

Most professions require frequent use of technical terms which may
originate from a foreign language. Such terms are usually not translated
to all languages. The universal nature of technical terms also
facilitate communication between professionals.

Some common examples of technical terms include: Homo sapiens, Alpha
Centauri, hertz, and habeas corpus.

Identifying changes in language is important for a number of reasons:

  *

    It allows braille translation software to follow changes in
    language, e.g., substitute control codes for accented characters,
    and insert control codes necessary to prevent erroneous creation of
    Grade 2 braille contractions.

  *

    Speech synthesizers that support multiple languages will be able to
    speak the text in the appropriate accent with proper pronunciation.
    If changes are not marked, the synthesizer will try its best to
    speak the words in the default language it works in. Thus, the
    French word for car, "voiture" would be pronounced "voyture" by a
    speech synthesizer that uses English as its default language.

  *

    Marking changes in language can benefit future developments in
    technology, for example users who are unable to translate between
    languages themselves will be able to use machines to translate
    unfamiliar languages.

  *

    Marking changes in language can also assist user agents in providing
    definitions using a dictionary.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 3.1.2

This Success Criterion helps:

  *

    people who use screen readers or other technologies that convert
    text into synthetic speech;

  *

    people who find it difficult to read written material with fluency
    and accuracy, such as recognizing characters and alphabets, decoding
    words, and understanding words and phrases;

  *

    people with certain cognitive, language and learning disabilities
    who use text-to-speech software;

  *

    people who rely on captions to recognize language changes in the
    soundtrack of synchronized media content.


      Examples of Success Criterion 3.1.2

 1.

    *A German phrase in an English sentence. *

    In the sentence, "He maintained that the DDR (German Democratic
    Republic) was just a 'Treppenwitz der Weltgeschichte'," the German
    phrase 'Treppenwitz der Weltgeschichte' is marked as German.
    Depending on the markup language, English may either be marked as
    the language for the entire document except where specified, or
    marked at the paragraph level. When a screen reader encounters the
    German phrase, it changes pronunciation rules from English to German
    to pronounce the word correctly.

 2.

    *Alternative language links*

    An HTML Web page includes links to versions of the page in other
    languages (e.g., Deutsch, Français, Nederlands, Castellano, etc.).
    The text of each link is the name of the language, in that language.
    The language of each link is indicated via a |lang| attribute.

 3.

    *"Podcast" used in a French sentence.*

    Because "podcast" is part of the vernacular of the immediately
    surrounding text in the following excerpt, "À l'occasion de
    l'exposition "Energie éternelle. 1500 ans d'art indien", le Palais
    des Beaux-Arts de Bruxelles a lancé son premier podcast. Vous pouvez
    télécharger ce podcast au format M4A et MP3," no indication of
    language change is required.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Language tags in HTML and XML
    <http://www.w3.org/International/articles/language-tags/Overview.en.php>
    - W3C Internationalization Working Group

  *

    Internationalization Best Practices: Specifying Language in XHTML &
    HTML Content <http://www.w3.org/TR/i18n-html-tech-lang/>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 3.1.2 - Language of
      Parts

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    H58: Using language attributes to identify changes in the human
    language <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H58>
    (HTML)

 2.

    FLASH13: Using HTML language attributes to specify language in Flash
    content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH13> (Flash)

 3.

    PDF19: Specifying the language for a passage or phrase with the Lang
    entry in PDF documents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/PDF19> (PDF)

 4.

    SL4: Declaring Discrete Silverlight Objects to Specify Language
    Parts in the HTML DOM
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL4>
    (Silverlight)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 3.1.2

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    SL27: Using Language/Culture Properties as Exposed by Silverlight
    Applications and Assistive Technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL27>
    (Silverlight)

  *

    Making text that is not in the default human language of the Web
    page visually distinct (future link)

  *

    Giving the names of any languages used in foreign passages or
    phrases (future link)

  *

    Providing language markup on proper names to facilitate correct
    pronunciation by screen readers (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 3.1.2

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 3.1.2 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

human language

    language that is spoken, written or signed (through visual or
    tactile means) to communicate with humans

    /Note: /See also sign language
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#sign-languagedef>.

programmatically determined (programmatically determinable)

    determined by software from author-supplied data provided in a way
    that different user agents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>,
    including assistive technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#atdef>, can extract
    and present this information to users in different modalities

    /Example 1: /Determined in a markup language from elements and
    attributes that are accessed directly by commonly available
    assistive technology.

    /Example 2: /Determined from technology-specific data structures in
    a non-markup language and exposed to assistive technology via an
    accessibility API that is supported by commonly available assistive
    technology.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Unusual Words*:
    Understanding SC 3.1.3

    *3.1.3
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#meaning-idioms>
    Unusual Words:* A mechanism
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#mechanismdef> is
    available for identifying specific definitions of words or phrases
    used in an unusual or restricted way
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#unusual-restricteddef>,
    including idioms
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#idiomsdef> and
    jargon <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#jargondef>.
    (Level AAA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

Certain disabilities make it difficult to understand nonliteral word
usage and specialized words or usage. Certain disabilities make it
difficult to understand figurative language or specialized usage.
Providing such mechanisms is vital for these audiences. Specialized
information intended for non-specialist readers is encouraged to satisfy
this Success Criterion, even when claiming only Single-A or Double-A
conformance.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 3.1.3

This Success Criterion may help people with cognitive, language and
learning disabilities who:

  *

    have difficulty decoding words

  *

    have difficulty understanding words and phrases

  *

    have difficulty using context to aid understanding

It would also help people with visual disabilities who:

  *

    lose context when zoomed-in with a screen magnifier


      Examples of Success Criterion 3.1.3

  *

    *Text that includes a definition for a word used in an unusual way.*

    Organize the list or "cascade" of dictionaries and other resources
    so that the definition search will find the intended definitions
    instead of displaying definitions from other sources in the
    "cascade." (The "cascade" lists the dictionaries and other reference
    materials in the order most likely to bring up the right definition.
    This controls the order to follow when searching for definitions.)

  *

    *Including definitions in the glossary.*

    WCAG 2.0 uses the word "text" in a specific way. Thus, when the word
    "text" is used within WCAG 2.0 it is linked to the definition of
    "text" provided in a glossary within the same Web page.

  *

    *The specific definition of a word is provided at the bottom of the
    page.*

    The internal link from the word to the corresponding definition is
    also provided within the page.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

/Note: /The inclusion of a product or vendor name in the list below does
not constitute an endorsement by the Web Content Accessibility
Guidelines Working Group or the Web Accessibility Initiative of the
World Wide Web Consortium. This list is provided simply for convenience
and to give users an idea of what resources may be available

  *

    Free bilingual dictionaries for a number of languages are available
    from the Freedict.org Web site <http://www.freedict.org/>. The
    dictionaries are of uneven quality and size as noted on the site.
    Retrieved 9 April 2005.

  *

    The WorldStar Free Dictionaries, Translators and Search Engines
    <http://www.stars21.com/index.html?lang=en&pname=african> site
    provides access to free on-line dictionaries and search engines in
    many languages. Retrieved 18 November 2005.

  *

    More dictionaries are at your dictionary
    <http://www.yourdictionary.com/>, freelang.com
    <http://www.freelang.com/> (in English, Spanish and French!) and
    many other places.


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 3.1.3 - Unusual Words

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

*Instructions:* Select the situation below that matches your content.
Each situation includes numbered techniques (or combinations of
techniques) that the Working Group deems to be sufficient for that
situation.


          Situation A: If the word or phrase has a unique meaning within
          the Web page:

 1.

    G101: Providing the definition of a word or phrase used in an
    unusual or restricted way
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G101> for the
    first occurrence of the word or phrase in a Web page using one of
    the following techniques:

      *

        G55: Linking to definitions
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G55>

          o

            H40: Using definition lists
            <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H40>
            (HTML)

          o

            H60: Using the link element to link to a glossary
            <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H60>
            (HTML)

      *

        G112: Using inline definitions
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G112>

          o

            H54: Using the dfn element to identify the defining instance
            of a word
            <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H54>
            (HTML)

 2.

    G101: Providing the definition of a word or phrase used in an
    unusual or restricted way
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G101> for each
    occurrence of the word or phrase in a Web page using one of the
    following techniques:

      *

        G55: Linking to definitions
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G55>

          o

            H40: Using definition lists
            <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H40>
            (HTML)

          o

            H60: Using the link element to link to a glossary
            <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H60>
            (HTML)

      *

        G62: Providing a glossary
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G62>

      *

        G70: Providing a function to search an online dictionary
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G70>


          Situation B: If the word or phrase means different things
          within the same Web page:

 1.

    G101: Providing the definition of a word or phrase used in an
    unusual or restricted way
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G101> for each
    occurrence of the word or phrase in a Web page using one of the
    following techniques:

      *

        G55: Linking to definitions
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G55>

          o

            H40: Using definition lists
            <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H40>
            (HTML)

          o

            H60: Using the link element to link to a glossary
            <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H60>
            (HTML)

      *

        G112: Using inline definitions
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G112>

          o

            H54: Using the dfn element to identify the defining instance
            of a word
            <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H54>
            (HTML)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 3.1.3

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Using markup and visual formatting to help users recognize words
    that have special meaning (future link)

  *

    Providing a voice-enabled dictionary search so that users who have
    difficulty typing or spelling can speak the word whose definition
    they need (future link)

  *

    Providing a sign language dictionary to help users who are deaf find
    the necessary definitions (future link)

  *

    Providing a mechanism for finding definitions for all words in text
    content (future link)

  *

    Providing a mechanism to determine the meaning of each word or
    phrase in text content (future link)

  *

    Avoiding unusual foreign words (future link)

  *

    Using a series of dictionaries in cascading fashion to provide
    meanings (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 3.1.3

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 3.1.3 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

idiom

    phrase whose meaning cannot be deduced from the meaning of the
    individual words and the specific words cannot be changed without
    losing the meaning

    /Note: /idioms cannot be translated directly, word for word, without
    losing their (cultural or language-dependent) meaning.

    /Example 1: /In English, "spilling the beans" means "revealing a
    secret." However, "knocking over the beans" or "spilling the
    vegetables" does not mean the same thing.

    /Example 2: /In Japanese, the phrase "さじを投げる" literally
    translates into "he throws a spoon," but it means that there is
    nothing he can do and finally he gives up.

    /Example 3: /In Dutch, "Hij ging met de kippen op stok" literally
    translates into "He went to roost with the chickens," but it means
    that he went to bed early.

jargon

    words used in a particular way by people in a particular field

    /Example: /The word StickyKeys is jargon from the field of assistive
    technology/accessibility.

mechanism

    process <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#processdef>
    or technique for achieving a result

    /Note 1: /The mechanism may be explicitly provided in the content,
    or may be relied upon
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#reliedupondef> to be
    provided by either the platform or by user agents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>,
    including assistive technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#atdef>.

    /Note 2: /The mechanism needs to meet all success criteria for the
    conformance level claimed.

used in an unusual or restricted way

    words used in such a way that requires users to know exactly which
    definition to apply in order to understand the content correctly

    /Example: /The term "gig" means something different if it occurs in
    a discussion of music concerts than it does in article about
    computer hard drive space, but the appropriate definition can be
    determined from context. By contrast, the word "text" is used in a
    very specific way in WCAG 2.0, so a definition is supplied in the
    glossary.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Abbreviations*:
    Understanding SC 3.1.4

    *3.1.4
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#meaning-located>
    Abbreviations:* A mechanism
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#mechanismdef> for
    identifying the expanded form or meaning of abbreviations
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#abbreviationsdef> is
    available. (Level AAA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that users can access
the expanded form of abbreviations.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 3.1.4

This Success Criterion may help people who:

  *

    have difficulty decoding words;

  *

    rely on screen magnifiers (magnification may reduce contextual cues);

  *

    have limited memory;

  *

    have difficulty using context to aid understanding.

Abbreviations may confuse some readers in different ways:

  *

    Some abbreviations do not look like normal words and cannot be
    pronounced according to the usual rules of the language. For
    example, the English word "room" is abbreviated as "rm," which does
    not correspond to any English word or phoneme. The user has to know
    that "rm" is an abbreviation for the word "room" in order to say it
    correctly.

  *

    Sometimes, the same abbreviation means different things in different
    contexts. For example, in the English sentence "Dr. Johnson lives on
    Boswell Dr.," the first "Dr." is an abbreviation for "Doctor" and
    the second instance is an abbreviation for the word "Drive" (a word
    that means "street"). Users must be able to understand the context
    in order to know what the abbreviations mean.

  *

    Some acronyms spell common words but are used in different ways. For
    example, "JAWS" is an acronym for a screen reader whose full name is
    "Job Access with Speech." It is also a common English word referring
    to the part of the mouth that holds the teeth. The acronym is used
    differently than the common word.

  *

    Some acronyms sound like common words but are spelled differently.
    For example, the acronym for Synchronized Multimedia Integration
    Language, S M I L, is pronounced like the English word "smile."

It would also help people with visual disabilities who:

  *

    Lose context when zoomed-in with a screen magnifier


      Examples of Success Criterion 3.1.4

  *

    *An abbreviation whose expansion is provided the first time the
    abbreviation appears in the content.*

    The name, "World Wide Web Consortium," appears as the first heading
    on the organization's home page. The abbreviation, "W3C," is
    enclosed in parentheses in the same heading.

  *

    *A dictionary search form.*

    A Web site includes a search form provided by an on-line acronym
    service. Users enter an acronym and the form returns a list of
    possible expansions from the sources that it searched.

  *

    *A medical Web site.*

    A medical Web site provides information for both doctors and
    patients. The site includes a set of cascading dictionaries; a very
    specialized medical dictionary is first, followed by a second
    medical dictionary for the general public. The cascade also includes
    a list of acronyms and abbreviations that are unique to the site,
    and finally there is a standard dictionary as well. The standard
    dictionary at the end of the list provides definitions for most
    words in the text. The specialized medical dictionary yields
    definitions of unusual medical terms. Definitions for words that
    appear in more than one dictionary are listed in the order of the
    cascade. The meaning of acronyms and abbreviations is provided by
    the list of acronyms and abbreviations.

  *

    *Expanded forms of Abbreviations. *

    The expanded form of each abbreviation is available in a
    programmatically determinable manner. User agents that speak the
    text can use the expanded form to announce the abbreviation. Other
    user agents might make the expanded form available as a tooltip or
    as contextual help for the abbreviation.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Acronym finder <http://www.acronymfinder.com/> - You can search with
    the exact acronym, the beginning of the acronym, wildcards and
    reverse lookup.

  *

    Abbreviations.com <http://www.abbreviations.com/>.


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 3.1.4 - Abbreviations

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

*Instructions:* Select the situation below that matches your content.
Each situation includes numbered techniques (or combinations of
techniques) that the Working Group deems to be sufficient for that
situation.


          Situation A: If the abbreviation has only one meaning within
          the Web page:

 1.

    G102: Providing the expansion or explanation of an abbreviation
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G102> for the
    first occurrence of the abbreviation in a Web page using one of the
    following techniques:

      *

        G97: Providing the first use of an abbreviation immediately
        before or afterfollowing the expanded form
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G97>

      *

        G55: Linking to definitions
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G55>

      *

        H28: Providing definitions for abbreviations by using the abbr
        and acronym elements
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H28> (HTML)

      *

        PDF8: Providing definitions for abbreviations via an E entry for
        a structure element
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/PDF8> (PDF)

 2.

    G102: Providing the expansion or explanation of an abbreviation
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G102> for all
    occurrences of the abbreviation in a Web page using one of the
    following techniques:

      *

        G55: Linking to definitions
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G55>

      *

        G62: Providing a glossary
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G62>

      *

        H60: Using the link element to link to a glossary
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H60> (HTML)

      *

        G70: Providing a function to search an online dictionary
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G70>

      *

        H28: Providing definitions for abbreviations by using the abbr
        and acronym elements
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H28> (HTML)

      *

        PDF8: Providing definitions for abbreviations via an E entry for
        a structure element
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/PDF8> (PDF)


          Situation B: If the abbreviation means different things within
          the same Web page:

 1.

    G102: Providing the expansion or explanation of an abbreviation
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G102> for all
    occurrences of abbreviations in a Web page using one of the
    following techniques:

      *

        G55: Linking to definitions
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G55>

      *

        H28: Providing definitions for abbreviations by using the abbr
        and acronym elements
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H28> (HTML)

      *

        PDF8: Providing definitions for abbreviations via an E entry for
        a structure element
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/PDF8> (PDF)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 3.1.4

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Using unique abbreviations in a Web page (future link)

  *

    Using visual formatting to help users recognize abbreviations
    (future link)

  *

    Providing access to a talking dictionary to support users who might
    have difficulty decoding written definitions (future link)

  *

    Providing a voice-enabled dictionary search so that users who have
    difficulty typing or spelling can speak the word whose definition
    they need (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 3.1.4

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 3.1.4 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

abbreviation

    shortened form of a word, phrase, or name where the abbreviation has
    not become part of the language

    /Note 1: /This includes initialisms and acronyms where:

     1.

        *initialisms* are shortened forms of a name or phrase made from
        the initial letters of words or syllables contained in that name
        or phrase

        /Note 1: /Not defined in all languages.

        /Example 1: /SNCF is a French initialism that contains the
        initial letters of the Société Nationale des Chemins de Fer, the
        French national railroad.

        /Example 2: /ESP is an initialism for extrasensory perception.

     2.

        *acronyms* are abbreviated forms made from the initial letters
        or parts of other words (in a name or phrase) which may be
        pronounced as a word

        /Example: /NOAA is an acronym made from the initial letters of
        the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in the
        United States.

    /Note 2: /Some companies have adopted what used to be an initialism
    as their company name. In these cases, the new name of the company
    is the letters (for example, Ecma) and the word is no longer
    considered an abbreviation.

mechanism

    process <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#processdef>
    or technique for achieving a result

    /Note 1: /The mechanism may be explicitly provided in the content,
    or may be relied upon
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#reliedupondef> to be
    provided by either the platform or by user agents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>,
    including assistive technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#atdef>.

    /Note 2: /The mechanism needs to meet all success criteria for the
    conformance level claimed.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Reading Level*:
    Understanding SC 3.1.5

    *3.1.5
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#meaning-supplements>
    Reading Level:* When text requires reading ability more advanced
    than the lower secondary education level
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#lowseceddef> after
    removal of proper names and titles, supplemental content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#suppcontentdef>, or
    a version that does not require reading ability more advanced than
    the lower secondary education level, is available. (Level AAA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

Content should be written as clearly and simply as possible. The intent
of this Success Criterion is:

  *

    to ensure that additional content is available to aid the
    understanding of difficult or complex text;

  *

    to establish a testable measure indicating when such additional
    content is required.

This Success Criterion helps people with reading disabilities while also
allowing authors to publish difficult or complex Web content. Text
difficulty is described in terms of the level of education required to
read the text. Education levels are defined according to the
International Standard Classification of Education [UNESCO] <#UNESCO>,
which was created to allow international comparison among systems of
education.

Difficult or complex text may be appropriate for most members of the
intended audience (that is, most of the people for whom the content has
been created). But there are people with disabilities, including reading
disabilities, even among highly educated users with specialized
knowledge of the subject matter. It may be possible to accommodate these
users by making the text more readable. If the text cannot be made more
readable, then supplemental content is needed. Supplemental content is
required when text demands reading ability more advanced than the lower
secondary education level—that is, more than nine years of school. Such
text presents severe obstacles to people with reading disabilities and
is considered difficult even for people without disabilities who have
completed upper secondary education.

Reading disabilities such as dyslexia make it difficult to recognize
written or printed words and associate them with the correct sounds.
This is called "decoding" the text. Decoding must be automatic in order
for people to read fluently. The act of decoding text word by word
consumes much of the mental energy that most people are able to use for
understanding what they read. Text that uses short, common words and
short sentences is easier to decode and usually requires less advanced
reading ability than text that uses long sentences and long or
unfamiliar words.

The education level required to read text content (also called
"readability") is measured by analyzing selected passages of text from
the Web page. If the Web page includes text written for different
purposes or different styles are used, the selected passages include
samples of the types of content in the Web page and the different styles
in which the content is written. (In many cases, the Web page contains
only one kind of text content—e.g., technical documentation, a legal
notice, marketing material, etc.—and all the content uses the same style.)

Educators can also measure the education level required to read text
content. For example, qualified teachers can evaluate text according to
local education standards to determine if it requires reading ability
beyond what is expected for students in the last year of lower secondary
education.

Because people's names, the names of cities or other proper names cannot
be changed to shorter names with fewer syllables, and because doing so
or just referring to everyone by pronouns can make sentences harder to
understand, the success criterion specifies that proper names can be
ignored or removed from the text before assessing whether it meets the
reading ability requirement. Titles refer to the name of documents,
books, movies, etc. Titles are removed or ignored for the analysis
because changing the words in titles might make the titles easier to
read but would make it impossible to understand the item to which the
title refers. This would make it harder to read and understand the
content. (e.g., a book, academic paper, article, etc.). Therefore,
titles are also exempted specifically.

When a Web page contains multiple languages, a readability result should
be calculated for each language that constitutes at least 5% of the
content and that is used in full sentences or paragraphs (not just
individual words or phrases). The overall readability of the page should
be judged on the language that yields the worst readability results.

The readability of content may also be determined by applying a
readability formula to the selected passage. Many (though not all)
readability formulas base their calculations on passages of 100 words.
Such formulas have been developed for many languages. The number of
words in the passage is counted and the length of the words is
determined by counting either the number of syllables or the number of
characters. Most readability formulas also count the number and length
of sentences. The average length of words and sentences in the content
is then used to calculate a readability score. (Some languages, such as
Japanese, may include multiple scripts within the same passage.
Readability formulas for these languages may use the number and length
of such "runs" in their calculations.) The result may be presented as a
number (for example, on a scale from 0-100) or as a grade level. These
results can then be interpreted using the education levels described in
the International Standard Classification of Education. Readability
formulas are available for at least some languages when running the
spell checkers in popular software if you specify in the options of this
engine that you want to have the statistics when it has finished
checking your documents.

Levels of educationPrimary education 	Lower secondary education 	Upper
secondary education 	Advanced education
First 6 years of school	7-9 years of school	10-12 years of school	More
than 12 years of school

Adapted from International Standard Classification of Education [UNESCO]
<#UNESCO>

/Note: /According to the Open Society Mental Health Initiative, the
concept of Easy to Read cannot be universal, and it will not be possible
to write a text that will suit the abilities of all people with literacy
and comprehension problems. Using the clearest and simplest language
appropriate is highly desirable, but the WCAG Working Group could not
find a way to test whether this had been achieved. The use of reading
level is a way to introduce testability into a Success Criterion that
encourages clear writing. Supplementary content can be a powerful
technique for people with some classes of cognitive disability.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 3.1.5

This Success Criterion may help people who:

  *

    Have difficulty comprehending and interpreting written language
    (e.g., articles, instructions, or newspapers in text or braille),
    for the purpose of obtaining general knowledge or specific information


      Examples of Success Criterion 3.1.5

 1.

    *A scientific journal including readable summaries of complex
    research articles*

    A scientific journal includes articles written in highly technical
    language aimed at specialists in the field. The journal's Table of
    Contents page includes a plain-language summary of each article. The
    summaries are intended for a general audience with eight years of
    school. The metadata for the journal uses the Dublin Core
    specification to identify the education level of the articles'
    intended audience as "advanced," and the education level of the
    intended audience for the summaries as "lower secondary education."

 2.

    *Medical information for members of the public.*

    A medical school operates a Web site that explains recent medical
    and scientific discoveries. The articles on the site are written for
    people without medical training. Each article uses the Dublin Core
    metadata specification to identify the education level of the
    intended audience as "lower secondary education" and includes the
    Flesch Reading Ease score for the article. A link on each page
    displays the education level and other metadata. No supplemental
    content is required because people who read at the lower secondary
    education level can read the articles.

 3.

    *An e-learning application. *

    An on-line course about Spanish cultural history includes a unit on
    Moorish architecture. The unit includes text written for students
    with different reading abilities. Photographs and drawings of
    buildings illustrate architectural concepts and styles. Graphic
    organizers are used to illustrate complex relationships, and an
    audio version using synthetic speech is available. The metadata for
    each version describes the academic level of the content and
    includes a readability score based on formulas developed for
    Spanish-language text. The learning application uses this metadata
    and metadata about the students to provide versions of instructional
    content that match the needs of individual students.

 4.

    *Science information that requires a reading ability at the lower
    secondary education level.*

    The text below (116 words total) requires a reading ability of grade
    4.2 in the United States according to the Flesch-Kincaid formula. In
    the US, grade 4.2 is at the primary education level.

    Science is about testing — and about looking closely. Some
    scientists use microscopes to take a close look. We're going to use
    a simple piece of paper.

    Here's what you do: Print this page and cut out the square to make a
    "window" one inch square. (It's easiest to fold the page in half
    before you cut.)

    Choose something interesting: a tree trunk, a leaf, flower, the soil
    surface, or a slice of soil from a shovel.

    Put your window over the thing and look at it closely. Take your
    time — this is not a race.

    To help you see more details, draw a picture of what's inside your
    square.

    Now let's think about what you've found.

    (Source: Howard Hughes Medical Institute
    http://www.hhmi.org/coolscience/forkids/inchsquare/)


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    A Plain Language Audit Tool provides a checklist for determining
    whether documents can be edited for clarity and "plain language."
    The checklist includes a readability assessment. Available from the
    Northwest Territories (Canada) Literacy Council at
    http://www.nwt.literacy.ca/resources/plainlang/auditool/cover.htm.

  *

    The Plain Language Association INternational (PLAIN) Web site
    provides many useful resources to help writers produce documents
    that communicate clearly in a variety of cultural and rhetorical
    contexts. Refer to: http://www.plainlanguagenetwork.org/.

  *

    The US Government's plain language Web site
    <http://www.plainlanguage.gov/> provides general information about
    plain language as well as information about use of plain language in
    US Government documents, including legal requirements

  *

    The Plain English Campaign Web site <http://www.plainenglish.co.uk/>
    provides useful information and guidance for authors writing in
    English.

  *

    Juicy Studio's Readability Test
    <http://juicystudio.com/services/readability.php> analyzes the
    readability of all rendered content.

  *

    Hall, T., and Strangman, N. CAST: Graphic organizers
    <http://aim.cast.org/learn/historyarchive/backgroundpapers/graphic_organizers>.
    Retrieved 5 April 2005. This article illustrates several different
    kinds of graphic organizers, explains how each type may be useful,
    and summarizes research findings that graphic organizers support
    learning, especially among students with learning disabilities.

  *

    Entry for Audience Education Level. Using Dublin Core – Dublin Core
    Qualifiers
    <http://dublincore.org/documents/usageguide/qualifiers.shtml>

  *

    IMS Learner Information Packaging Model Information Specification,
    Table 6.3 "accessibility" learner information data structure
    detailed description
    <http://www.imsglobal.org/profiles/lipinfo01.html#tab6.3>

  *

    TextQuest.de <http://www.textquest.de/lesbar.htm> lists references
    for readability formulas for different languages, including English,
    German, Spanish, Dutch, French, and Swedish.

  *

    Richtlijnen Keurmerk Makkelijk Lezen
    <http://taalunieversum.org/onderwijs/publicaties/geletterd_in_de_lage_landen/richtlijnen.php>
    are the guidelines used by the Stichting Makkelijk Lezen (Easy
    Reading Foundation).

  *

    Leesbaar Nederlands <http://www.leesbaarnederlands.nl/> ("Readable
    Dutch") contains guidelines for writing text that is accessible for
    people with a reading disability. These guidelines address language,
    content and design.

  *

    Wetenschappelijke verantwoording van de toetsserie Leestechniek &
    Leestempo <http://toetswijzer.kennisnet.nl/html/tg/4.pdf> describes
    the CILT (CITO index voor leestechniek - CITO index for reading
    ability), the formulas developed by the Dutch organization CITO
    <http://www.cito.nl/> that relate readability to education level.

  *

    European Easy-to-Read Guidelines <http://www.inclusion-europe.org/etr/>

  *

    Flesch-Kincaid Readability Test
    <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flesch-Kincaid_Readability_Test>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 3.1.5 - Reading Level

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G86: Providing a text summary that requires reading ability less
    advanced than the upper secondary education level
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G86>

 2.

    G103: Providing visual illustrations, pictures, and symbols to help
    explain ideas, events, and processes
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G103>

 3.

    G79: Providing a spoken version of the text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G79>

 4.

    G153: Making the text easier to read
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G153>

 5.

    G160: Providing sign language versions of information, ideas, and
    processes that must be understood in order to use the content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G160>

/Note: /Different sites may address this Success Criterion in different
ways. An audio version of the content may be helpful to some users. For
some people who are deaf, a sign language version of the page may be
easier to understand than a written language version since sign language
may be their first language. Some sites may decide to do both or other
combinations. No technique will help all users who have difficulty. So
different techniques are provided as sufficient techniques here for
authors trying to make their sites more accessible. Any numbered
technique or combination above can be used by a particular site and it
is considered sufficient by the Working Group.


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 3.1.5

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Providing text for navigational and landing pages that requires
    reading ability that is less advanced than the lower secondary
    education level (future link)

  *

    Providing text for interior pages that requires reading ability at
    the lower secondary education level (future link)

  *

    Including content summaries in metadata (future link)

  *

    Using the clearest and simplest language appropriate for the content
    (future link)

  *

    Using RDF to associate supplements with primary content (future link)

  *

    Providing a clear representational image on the site's home page
    (future link)

  *

    Clearly marking, by use of text or icon, content which has been
    optimized for easy reading (future link)

  *

    Using sentences that contain no redundant words, that is, words that
    do not change the meaning of the sentence (future link)

  *

    Using sentences that contain no more than two conjunctions (future
    link)

  *

    Using sentences that are no longer than the typical accepted length
    for secondary education (Note: In English that is 25 words) (future
    link)

  *

    Using sentences that do not contain complex words or phrases that
    could be replaced with more commonly used words without changing the
    meaning of the sentence (future link)

  *

    Providing summaries for different sections of text (future link)

  *

    Using metadata to associate alternatives at different reading
    levels. (future link)

  *

    Using the Dublin Core accessibility element to associate text
    content with text, graphical, or spoken supplements (future link)

  *

    Using the ISO AfA accessibility element to associate text content
    with text, graphical, or spoken supplements (future link)

  *

    Using the IMS accessibility element to associate text content with
    text, graphical, or spoken supplements (future link)

  *

    Making metadata viewable by humans (future link)

      o

        EXAMPLE: Providing, in metadata, URI(s) that point to a
        pre-primary-reading-level and a primary-reading-level text
        transcript of a new scientific discovery advanced-reading-level
        article.

  *

    Providing progressive complexity for site and page content (future
    link)


        Common Failures for SC 3.1.5

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 3.1.5 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

lower secondary education level

    the two or three year period of education that begins after
    completion of six years of school and ends nine years after the
    beginning of primary education
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#primseceddef>

    /Note: /This definition is based on the International Standard
    Classification of Education [UNESCO] <#UNESCO>.

supplemental content

    additional content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#contentdef> that
    illustrates or clarifies the primary content

    /Example 1: / An audio version of a Web page
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef>.

    /Example 2: / An illustration of a complex process
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#processdef>.

    /Example 3: / A paragraph summarizing the major outcomes and
    recommendations made in a research study.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Pronunciation*:
    Understanding SC 3.1.6

    *3.1.6
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#meaning-pronunciation>
    Pronunciation:* A mechanism
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#mechanismdef> is
    available for identifying specific pronunciation of words where
    meaning of the words, in context, is ambiguous without knowing the
    pronunciation. (Level AAA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to help people who are blind,
people who have low vision, and people with reading disabilities to
understand content in cases where meaning depends on pronunciation.
Often words or characters have different meanings, each with its own
pronunciation. The meaning of such words or characters can usually be
determined from the context of the sentence. However, for more complex
or ambiguous sentences, or for some languages, the meaning of the word
cannot be easily determined or determined at all without knowing the
pronunciation. When the sentence is read aloud and the screen reader
reads the word using the wrong pronunciation, it can be even more
difficult to understand than when read visually. When words are
ambiguous or indeterminate unless the pronunciation is known, then
providing some means of determining the pronunciation is needed.

For example, in the English language heteronyms are words that are
spelled the same but have different pronunciations and meanings, such as
the words desert (abandon) and desert (arid region). If the proper
pronunciation can be determined from the context of the sentence, then
nothing is required. If it cannot then some mechanism for determining
the proper pronunciation would be required. Additionally, in some
languages certain characters can be pronounced in different ways. In
Japanese, for example, there are characters like Han characters(Kanji)
that have multiple pronunciations. Screen readers may speak the
characters incorrectly without the information on pronunciation. When
read incorrectly, the content will not make sense to users.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 3.1.6

This Success Criterion may help people who:

  *

    have difficulty decoding words

  *

    have difficulty using context to aid understanding

  *

    use technologies that read the words aloud


      Examples of Success Criterion 3.1.6

  *

    *Giving the reading of a person's name.*

    Web content in Japanese provides kana (Japanese phonetic syllabary
    characters) written next to Han characters (Kanji) show the
    pronunciation of a person's name. The kana is provided to users in
    parentheses right after the word. Giving the reading of the words
    written in Han characters (Kanji) allows both sighted users and
    screen readers to read/pronounce the words correctly. Note that
    screen readers will speak the word twice: the Han characters (Kanji)
    that can be pronounced in a wrong way are read first and then kana
    is spoken in order to provide the correct reading.

  *

    *Showing the reading of the words by |ruby| element.*

    Web content using XHTML 1.1 provides kana (phonetic syllabary
    characters) written above the characters to show the reading
    (pronunciation) of the words by using the |ruby| element.

  *

    *Providing sound files of the pronunciation.*

    A document includes some words whose meaning cannot be determined
    without knowing the correct pronunciation. Each word is linked to a
    sound file that gives the correct pronunciation. Users can select
    these links to find out how to pronounce the words.

  *

    *Including pronunciation information in the glossary.*

    A Web page includes a glossary section. Some items in the glossary
    include pronunciation information as well as definitions. Words in
    the content whose meaning cannot be determined without knowing their
    pronunciation are linked to the appropriate entries in the glossary.

  *

    *Text that includes pronunciation information for characters shared
    by several languages but pronounced differently in each language*

    A Japanese university Web site includes several short phrases quoted
    from scholarly texts in Chinese and Korean. The quotations are
    written using the same script as the Japanese text. Pronunciation
    information is provided to show the correct reading of the Chinese
    and Korean characters.

/Note: /For Japanese, the |ruby| element is used for showing the
"reading" rather than "pronunciation."


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 3.1.6 - Pronunciation

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G120: Providing the pronunciation immediately following the word
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G120>

 2.

    G121: Linking to pronunciations
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G121>

 3.

    G62: Providing a glossary
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G62> that
    includes pronunciation information for words that have a unique
    pronunciation in the content and have meaning that depends on
    pronunciation

 4.

    G163: Using standard diacritical marks that can be turned off
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G163>

 5.

    H62: Using the ruby element
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H62> (HTML)
    (XHTML 1.1)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 3.1.6

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Providing pronunciations in a sound file, so that users can listen
    to the pronunciations of the word (future link)

  *

    Providing a mechanism for finding pronunciations for all foreign
    words in text content (future link)

  *

    Providing a mechanism to determine the pronunciations of each word
    or phrase in text content (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 3.1.6

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 3.1.6 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

mechanism

    process <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#processdef>
    or technique for achieving a result

    /Note 1: /The mechanism may be explicitly provided in the content,
    or may be relied upon
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#reliedupondef> to be
    provided by either the platform or by user agents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>,
    including assistive technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#atdef>.

    /Note 2: /The mechanism needs to meet all success criteria for the
    conformance level claimed.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Predictable*:
    Understanding Guideline 3.2

    *Guideline 3.2: * Make Web pages appear and operate in predictable
    ways.


      Intent of Guideline 3.2

The intent of this Guideline is to help users with disabilities by
presenting content in a predictable order from Web page to Web page and
by making the behavior of functional and interactive components
predictable. It is difficult for some users to form an overview of the
Web page: screen readers present content as a one-dimensional stream of
synthetic speech that makes it difficult to understand spatial
relationships. Users with cognitive limitations may become confused if
components appear in different places on different pages.

For example, people who use screen magnifiers see only part of the
screen at any point in time; a consistent layout makes it easier for
them to find navigation bars and other components. Placing repeated
components in the same relative order within a set of Web pages allows
users with reading disabilities to focus on an area of the screen rather
than spending additional time decoding the text of each link. Users with
limited use of their hands can more easily determine how to complete
their tasks using the fewest keystrokes.


      Advisory Techniques for Guideline 3.2 (not success criteria specific)

Specific techniques for meeting each Success Criterion for this
guideline are listed in the understanding sections for each Success
Criterion (listed below). If there are techniques, however, for
addressing this guideline that do not fall under any of the success
criteria, they are listed here. These techniques are not required or
sufficient for meeting any success criteria, but can make certain types
of Web content more accessible to more people.

  *

    Positioning labels to maximize predictability of relationships


    *On Focus*:
    Understanding SC 3.2.1

    *3.2.1
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#consistent-behavior-receive-focus>
    On Focus:* When any component receives focus, it does not initiate a
    change of context
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#context-changedef>.
    (Level A)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that functionality is
predictable as visitors navigate their way through a document. Any
component that is able to trigger an event when it receives focus must
not change the context. Examples of changing context when a component
receives focus include, but are not limited to:

  *

    forms submitted automatically when a component receives focus;

  *

    new windows launched when a component receives focus;

  *

    focus is changed to another component when that component receives
    focus;

Focus may be moved to a control either via the keyboard (e.g. tabbing to
a control) or the mouse (e.g. clicking on a text field). Moving the
mouse over a control does not move the focus unless scripting implements
this behavior. Note that for some types of controls, clicking on a
control may also activate the control (e.g. button), which may, in turn,
initiate a change in context.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 3.2.1

  *

    This Success Criterion helps people with visual disabilities,
    cognitive limitations, and motor impairments by reducing the chance
    that a change of context will occur unexpectedly.


      Examples of Success Criterion 3.2.1

  *

    *Example 1: A dropdown menu*

    A dropdown menu on a page allows users to choose between jump
    destinations. If the person uses the keyboard to move down to a
    choice and activates it (with a spacebar or enter key) it will jump
    to a new page. However, if the person moves down to a choice and
    either hits the escape or the tab key to move out of the pulldown
    menu – it does not jump to a new screen as the focus shifts out of
    the dropdown menu.

  *

    *Example of a Failure: A help dialog *

    When a field receives focus, a help dialog window describing the
    field and providing options opens. As a keyboard user tabs through
    the Web page, the dialog opens, moving the keyboard focus away from
    the control every time the user attempts to tab past the field.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 3.2.1 - On Focus

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G107: Using "activate" rather than "focus" as a trigger for changes
    of context <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G107>

/Note: /A change of content is not always a change of context
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#context-changedef>. This
success criterion is automatically met if changes in content are not
also changes of context.


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 3.2.1

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Not causing persistent changes of state or value when a component
    receives focus, or providing an alternate means to reset any changes
    (future link)

  *

    G200: Opening new windows and tabs from a link only when necessary
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G200>

  *

    G201: Giving users advanced warning when opening a new window
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G201>


        Common Failures for SC 3.2.1

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 3.2.1 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F52: Failure of Success Criterion 3.2.1 and 3.2.5 due to opening a
    new window as soon as a new page is loaded
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F52>

  *

    F55: Failure of Success Criteria 2.1.1, 2.4.7, and 3.2.1 due to
    using script to remove focus when focus is received
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F55>


      Key Terms

changes of context

    major changes in the content of the Web page
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> that, if
    made without user awareness, can disorient users who are not able to
    view the entire page simultaneously

    Changes in context include changes of:

     1.

        user agent
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>;

     2.

        viewport
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#viewportdef>;

     3.

        focus;

     4.

        content
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#contentdef> that
        changes the meaning of the Web page
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef>.

    /Note: /A change of content is not always a change of context.
    Changes in content, such as an expanding outline, dynamic menu, or a
    tab control do not necessarily change the context, unless they also
    change one of the above (e.g., focus).

    /Example: /Opening a new window, moving focus to a different
    component, going to a new page (including anything that would look
    to a user as if they had moved to a new page) or significantly
    re-arranging the content of a page are examples of changes of context.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *On Input*:
    Understanding SC 3.2.2

    *3.2.2
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#consistent-behavior-unpredictable-change>
    On Input:* Changing the setting of any user interface component
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#user-interface-componentdef>
    does not automatically cause a change of context
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#context-changedef>
    unless the user has been advised of the behavior before using the
    component. (Level A)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that entering data or
selecting a form control has predictable effects. Changing the setting
of any user interface component is changing some state in the control
that will persist when the user is no longer interacting with it. So
checking a checkbox or entering text into a text field changes its
setting, but activating a link or a button does not. Changes in context
can confuse users who do not easily perceive the change or are easily
distracted by changes. Changes of context are appropriate only when it
is clear that such a change will happen in response to the user's action.

/Note: /This Success Criterion covers changes in context due to changing
the setting of a control. Clicking on links or tabs in a tab control is
activating the control, not changing the setting of that control.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 3.2.2

  *

    This Success Criterion helps users with disabilities by making
    interactive content more predictable. Unexpected changes of context
    can be so disorienting for users with visual disabilities or
    cognitive limitations that they are unable to use the content.

  *

    Individuals who are unable to detect changes of context are less
    likely to become disoriented while navigating a site. For example:

      o

        Individuals who are blind or have low vision may have difficulty
        knowing when a visual context change has occurred, such as a new
        window popping up. In this case, warning users of context
        changes in advance minimizes confusion when the user discovers
        that the back button no longer behaves as expected.

  *

    Some individuals with low vision, with reading and intellectual
    disabilities, and others who have difficulty interpreting visual
    cues may benefit from additional cues in order to detect changes of
    context.


      Examples of Success Criterion 3.2.2

  *

    A form is provided for creating calendar entries in a Web based
    calendaring and scheduling application. Along with the standard
    fields for subject, time and location, there is a set of radio
    buttons to select the type of calendar entry to create. The calendar
    entry type can be meeting, appointment or reminder. If the user
    selects the radio for meeting, additional fields are displayed on
    the page for entering the meeting participants. Different fields
    appear if the reminder button is chosen. Because only parts of the
    entry change and the overall structure remains the same the basic
    context remains for the user.

  *

    A form contains fields representing US phone numbers. All of the
    numbers have a three digit area code followed by a three digit
    prefix and finally a four digit number, and each part of the phone
    number is entered into a separate field. When the user completes the
    entry of one field and enter the first digit of the next field, the
    focus automatically moves to the next field of the phone number.
    This behavior of phone fields is described for the user at the
    beginning of the form.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 3.2.2 - On Input

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G80: Providing a submit button to initiate a change of context
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G80> using a
    technology-specific technique listed below

      *

        H32: Providing submit buttons
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H32> (HTML)

      *

        H84: Using a button with a select element to perform an action
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H84> (HTML)

      *

        FLASH4: Providing submit buttons in Flash
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH4>
        (Flash)

      *

        PDF15: Providing submit buttons with the submit-form action in
        PDF forms
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/PDF15> (PDF)

      *

        SL10: Implementing a Submit-Form Pattern in Silverlight
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL10>
        (Silverlight)

 2.

    G13: Describing what will happen before a change to a form control
    that causes a change of context to occur is made
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G13>

 3.

    SCR19: Using an onchange event on a select element without causing a
    change of context
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SCR19>
    (Scripting)

/Note: /A change of content is not always a change of context
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#context-changedef>. This
success criterion is automatically met if changes in content are not
also changes of context.


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 3.2.2

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    G201: Giving users advanced warning when opening a new window
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G201>


        Common Failures for SC 3.2.2

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 3.2.2 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F36: Failure of Success Criterion 3.2.2 due to automatically
    submitting a form and presenting new content without prior warning
    when the last field in the form is given a value
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F36>

  *

    F37: Failure of Success Criterion 3.2.2 due to launching a new
    window without prior warning when the status of a radio button,
    check box or select list is changed
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F37>

  *

    F76: Failure of Success Criterion 3.2.2 due to providing instruction
    material about the change of context by change of setting in a user
    interface element at a location that users may bypass
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F76>


      Key Terms

changes of context

    major changes in the content of the Web page
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> that, if
    made without user awareness, can disorient users who are not able to
    view the entire page simultaneously

    Changes in context include changes of:

     1.

        user agent
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>;

     2.

        viewport
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#viewportdef>;

     3.

        focus;

     4.

        content
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#contentdef> that
        changes the meaning of the Web page
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef>.

    /Note: /A change of content is not always a change of context.
    Changes in content, such as an expanding outline, dynamic menu, or a
    tab control do not necessarily change the context, unless they also
    change one of the above (e.g., focus).

    /Example: /Opening a new window, moving focus to a different
    component, going to a new page (including anything that would look
    to a user as if they had moved to a new page) or significantly
    re-arranging the content of a page are examples of changes of context.

user interface component

    a part of the content that is perceived by users as a single control
    for a distinct function

    /Note 1: /Multiple user interface components may be implemented as a
    single programmatic element. Components here is not tied to
    programming techniques, but rather to what the user perceives as
    separate controls.

    /Note 2: /User interface components include form elements and links
    as well as components generated by scripts.

    /Example: /An applet has a "control" that can be used to move
    through content by line or page or random access. Since each of
    these would need to have a name and be settable independently, they
    would each be a "user interface component."

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Consistent Navigation*:
    Understanding SC 3.2.3

    *3.2.3
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#consistent-behavior-consistent-locations>
    Consistent Navigation:* Navigational mechanisms that are repeated on
    multiple Web pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> within a
    set of Web pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#set-of-web-pagesdef>
    occur in the same relative order
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#samerelorderdef>
    each time they are repeated, unless a change is initiated by the
    user. (Level AA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to encourage the use of
consistent presentation and layout for users who interact with repeated
content within a set of Web pages and need to locate specific
information or functionality more than once. Individuals with low vision
who use screen magnification to display a small portion of the screen at
a time often use visual cues and page boundaries to quickly locate
repeated content. Presenting repeated content in the same order is also
important for visual users who use spatial memory or visual cues within
the design to locate repeated content.

It is important to note that the use of the phrase "same order" in this
section is not meant to imply that subnavigation menus cannot be used or
that blocks of secondary navigation or page structure cannot be used.
Instead, this Success Criterion is intended to assist users who interact
with repeated content across Web pages to be able to predict the
location of the content they are looking for and find it more quickly
when they encounter it again.

Users may initiate a change in the order by using adaptive user agents
or by setting preferences so that the information is presented in a way
that is most useful to them.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 3.2.3

  *

    Ensuring that repeated components occur in the same order on each
    page of a site helps users become comfortable that they will able to
    predict where they can find things on each page. This helps users
    with *cognitive limitations*, users with *low vision*, users with
    *intellectual disabilities*, and also those who are *blind*.


      Examples of Success Criterion 3.2.3

  *

    *A consistently located control*

    A search field is the last item on every Web page in a site. users
    can quickly locate the search function.

  *

    *An expanding navigation menu*

    A navigation menu includes a list of seven items with links to the
    main sections of a site. When a user selects one of these items, a
    list of subnavigation items is inserted into the top-level
    navigation menu.

  *

    *Consistently positioned skip navigation controls*

    A "skip navigation" (or "skip to main content") link is included as
    the first link on every page in a Web site. The link allows users to
    quickly bypass heading information and navigational content and
    begin interacting with the main content of a page.

  *

    *Skip to navigation link*

    Navigational content is consistently located at the end of each page
    in a set of Web pages. A "skip to navigation" link is consistently
    located at the beginning of each page so that keyboard users can
    easily locate it when needed.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Detweiler, M.C. and Omanson, R.C. (1996), Ameritech Web Page User
    Interface Standards and Design Guidelines.

  *

    Understanding disability issues when designing Web sites
    <http://www-03.ibm.com/able/access_ibm/disability.html>.


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 3.2.3 - Consistent
      Navigation

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G61: Presenting repeated components in the same relative order each
    time they appear
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G61>

 2.

    PDF14: Providing running headers and footers in PDF documents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/PDF14> (PDF)

 3.

    PDF17: Specifying consistent page numbering for PDF documents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/PDF17> (PDF)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 3.2.3

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Using templates to ensure consistency across multiple Web pages
    (future link)

  *

    Creating layout, positioning, layering, and alignment (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 3.2.3

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 3.2.3 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F66: Failure of Success Criterion 3.2.3 due to presenting navigation
    links in a different relative order on different pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F66>


      Key Terms

Web page

    a non-embedded resource obtained from a single URI using HTTP plus
    any other resources that are used in the rendering or intended to be
    rendered together with it by a user agent
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>

    /Note 1: /Although any "other resources" would be rendered together
    with the primary resource, they would not necessarily be rendered
    simultaneously with each other.

    /Note 2: /For the purposes of conformance with these guidelines, a
    resource must be "non-embedded" within the scope of conformance to
    be considered a Web page.

    /Example 1: /A Web resource including all embedded images and media.

    /Example 2: /A Web mail program built using Asynchronous JavaScript
    and XML (AJAX). The program lives entirely at
    http://example.com/mail, but includes an inbox, a contacts area and
    a calendar. Links or buttons are provided that cause the inbox,
    contacts, or calendar to display, but do not change the URI of the
    page as a whole.

    /Example 3: /A customizable portal site, where users can choose
    content to display from a set of different content modules.

    /Example 4: /When you enter "http://shopping.example.com/" in your
    browser, you enter a movie-like interactive shopping environment
    where you visually move around in a store dragging products off of
    the shelves around you and into a visual shopping cart in front of
    you. Clicking on a product causes it to be demonstrated with a
    specification sheet floating alongside. This might be a single-page
    Web site or just one page within a Web site.

same relative order

    same position relative to other items

    /Note: /Items are considered to be in the same relative order even
    if other items are inserted or removed from the original order. For
    example, expanding navigation menus may insert an additional level
    of detail or a secondary navigation section may be inserted into the
    reading order.

set of Web pages

    collection of Web pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> that
    share a common purpose and that are created by the same author,
    group or organization

    /Note: /Different language versions would be considered different
    sets of Web pages.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Consistent Identification*:
    Understanding SC 3.2.4

    *3.2.4
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#consistent-behavior-consistent-functionality>
    Consistent Identification:* Components that have the same
    functionality
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#samefunctionalitydef> within
    a set of Web pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> are
    identified consistently. (Level AA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure consistent
identification of functional components that appear repeatedly within a
set of Web pages. A strategy that people who use screen readers use when
operating a Web site is to rely heavily on their familiarity with
functions that may appear on different Web pages. If identical functions
have different labels on different Web pages, the site will be
considerably more difficult to use. It may also be confusing and
increase the cognitive load for people with cognitive limitations.
Therefore, consistent labeling will help.

This consistency extends to the text alternatives. If icons or other
non-text items have the same functionality, then their text alternatives
should be consistent as well.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 3.2.4

  *

    People who learn functionality on one page on a site can find the
    desired functions on other pages if they are present.

  *

    When non-text content is used in a consistent way to identify
    components with the same functionality, people with difficulty
    reading text or detecting text alternatives can interact with the
    Web without depending on text alternatives.

  *

    People who depend on text alternatives can have a more predictable
    experience. They can also search for the component if it has a
    consistent label on different pages.


      Examples of Success Criterion 3.2.4

  *

    *Example 1: Document Icon*

    A document icon is used to indicate document download throughout a
    site. The text alternative for the icon always begins with the word
    “Download," followed by a shortened form of the document title.
    Using different text alternatives to identify document names for
    different documents is a consistent use of text alternatives.

  *

    *Example 2: Check Mark*

    A check mark icon functions as "approved", on one page but as
    "included" on another. Since they serve different functions, they
    have different text alternatives.

  *

    *Example 3: Consistent references to other pages*

    A Web site publishes articles on-line. Each article spans multiple
    Web pages and each page contains a link to the first page, the next
    page and the previous page of the article. If the references to the
    next page read "page 2", "page 3", "page 4" etcetera, the labels are
    not the same but they are consistent. Therefore, these references
    are not failures of this Success Criterion.

  *

    *Example 4: Icons with similar functions*

    An e-commerce application uses a printer icon that allows the user
    to print receipts and invoices. In one part of the application, the
    printer icon is labeled "Print receipt" and is used to print
    receipts, while in another part it is labeled "Print invoice" and is
    used to print invoices. The labeling is consistent ("Print x"), but
    the labels are different to reflect the different functions of the
    icons. Therefore, this example does not fail the Success Criterion.

  *

    *Example 5: Save icon*

    A common "save" icon is used through out the site where page save
    function is provided on multiple Web pages.

  *

    *Example 6: Example of a Failure*

    A submit "search" button on one Web page and a "find" button on
    another Web page both have a field to enter a term and list topics
    in the Web site related to the term submitted. In this case, the
    buttons have the same functionality but are not labeled consistently.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 3.2.4 - Consistent
      Identification

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G197: Using labels, names, and text alternatives consistently for
    content that has the same functionality
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G197> *AND*
    following the sufficient techniques for Success Criterion 1.1.1
    <https://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20120103/text-equiv-all.html#text-equiv-all-techniques-head>
    and sufficient techniques for Success Criterion 4.1.2
    <https://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20120103/ensure-compat-rsv.html#ensure-compat-rsv-techniques-head>
    for providing labels, names, and text alternatives.

/Note 1: /Text alternatives that are "consistent" are not always
"identical." For instance, you may have an graphical arrow at the bottom
of a Web page that links to the next Web page. The text alternative may
say "Go to page 4." Naturally, it would not be appropriate to repeat
this exact text alternative on the next Web page. It would be more
appropriate to say "Go to page 5". Although these text alternatives
would not be identical, they would be consistent, and therefore would
satisfy this Success Criterion.

/Note 2: / A single non-text-content-item may be used to serve different
functions. In such cases, different text alternatives are necessary and
should be used. Examples can be commonly found with the use of icons
such as check marks, cross marks, and traffic signs. Their functions can
be different depending on the context of the Web page. A check mark icon
may function as "approved", "completed", or "included", to name a few,
depending on the situation. Using "check mark" as text alternative
across all Web pages does not help users understand the function of the
icon. Different text alternatives can be used when the same non-text
content serves multiple functions.


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 3.2.4

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Ensuring that the text alternative conveys the function of the
    component and what will happen when the user activates it (future link)

  *

    Using the same non-text content for a given function whenever
    possible (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 3.2.4

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 3.2.4 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F31: Failure of Success Criterion 3.2.4 due to using two different
    labels for the same function on different Web pages within a set of
    Web pages <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F31>


      Key Terms

Web page

    a non-embedded resource obtained from a single URI using HTTP plus
    any other resources that are used in the rendering or intended to be
    rendered together with it by a user agent
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>

    /Note 1: /Although any "other resources" would be rendered together
    with the primary resource, they would not necessarily be rendered
    simultaneously with each other.

    /Note 2: /For the purposes of conformance with these guidelines, a
    resource must be "non-embedded" within the scope of conformance to
    be considered a Web page.

    /Example 1: /A Web resource including all embedded images and media.

    /Example 2: /A Web mail program built using Asynchronous JavaScript
    and XML (AJAX). The program lives entirely at
    http://example.com/mail, but includes an inbox, a contacts area and
    a calendar. Links or buttons are provided that cause the inbox,
    contacts, or calendar to display, but do not change the URI of the
    page as a whole.

    /Example 3: /A customizable portal site, where users can choose
    content to display from a set of different content modules.

    /Example 4: /When you enter "http://shopping.example.com/" in your
    browser, you enter a movie-like interactive shopping environment
    where you visually move around in a store dragging products off of
    the shelves around you and into a visual shopping cart in front of
    you. Clicking on a product causes it to be demonstrated with a
    specification sheet floating alongside. This might be a single-page
    Web site or just one page within a Web site.

same functionality

    same result when used

    /Example: /A submit "search" button on one Web page and a "find"
    button on another Web page may both have a field to enter a term and
    list topics in the Web site related to the term submitted. In this
    case, they would have the same functionality but would not be
    labeled consistently.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Change on Request*:
    Understanding SC 3.2.5

    *3.2.5
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#consistent-behavior-no-extreme-changes-context>
    Change on Request:* Changes of context
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#context-changedef>
    are initiated only by user request or a mechanism
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#mechanismdef> is
    available to turn off such changes. (Level AAA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to encourage design of Web
content that gives users full control of changes of context. This
Success Criterion aims to eliminate potential confusion that may be
caused by unexpected changes of context such as automatic launching of
new windows, automatic submission of forms after selecting an item from
a list, etcetera. Such unexpected changes of context may cause
difficulties for people with motor impairments, people with low vision,
people who are blind, and people with certain cognitive limitations.

Some types of change of context are not disruptive to some users, or
actively benefit some users. For example, single-switch users rely on
context changes that are animated by the system, and the preferences of
low-vision users may vary depending on how much of the content they can
see at once and how much of the session structure they can retain in
working memory. Some types of content, such as slide shows, require the
ability to change context in order to provide the intended user
experience. Content that initiates changes of context automatically only
when user preferences allow can conform to this Success Criterion.

/Note: /Clicking on a link is an example of an action that is "initiated
only by user request."


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 3.2.5

  *

    Individuals who are unable to detect changes of context or may not
    realize that the context has changed are less likely to become
    disoriented while navigating a site. For example:

      o

        individuals who are blind or have low vision may have difficulty
        knowing when a visual context change has occurred, such as a new
        window popping up. In this case, warning users of context
        changes in advance minimizes confusion when the user discovers
        that the back button no longer behaves as expected.

  *

    Some individuals with low vision, with reading and intellectual
    disabilities, and who have difficulty interpreting visual cues may
    benefit from additional cues in order to detect changes of context.

  *

    People with certain *cognitive limitations* do not get confused if
    automatic redirects are performed by the Web server instead of the
    browser.


      Examples of Success Criterion 3.2.5

  *

    *an "update now" button*

    Instead of automatically updating the content, the author provides
    an "Update now" button that requests a refresh of the content.

  *

    *An automatic redirection*

    A user is automatically redirected from an old page to a new page in
    such a way that he or she never realizes the redirect has occurred.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Use standard redirects: don't break the back button!
    <http://www.w3.org/QA/Tips/reback> (W3C QA Tip).

  *

    HTTP/1.1 Status Code Definitions: Redirection 3xx
    <http://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec10.html#sec10.3>.


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 3.2.5 - Change on
      Request

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

*Instructions:* Select the situation below that matches your content.
Each situation includes numbered techniques (or combinations of
techniques) that the Working Group deems to be sufficient for that
situation.


          Situation A: If the Web page allows automatic updates:

 1.

    G76: Providing a mechanism to request an update of the content
    instead of updating automatically
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G76>


          Situation B: If automatic redirects are possible:

 1.

    SVR1: Implementing automatic redirects on the server side instead of
    on the client side
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SVR1> (SERVER)

 2.

    G110: Using an instant client-side redirect
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G110> using
    one of the following techniques:

      *

        H76: Using meta refresh to create an instant client-side
        redirect
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H76> (HTML)


          Situation C: If the Web page uses pop-up windows:

 1.

    Including pop-up windows using one of the following techniques:

      *

        H83: Using the target attribute to open a new window on user
        request and indicating this in link text
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H83> (HTML)

      *

        SCR24: Using progressive enhancement to open new windows on user
        request
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SCR24>
        (Scripting)


          Situation D: If using an onchange event on a select element:

 1.

    SCR19: Using an onchange event on a select element without causing a
    change of context
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SCR19>
    (Scripting)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 3.2.5

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Opening new windows by providing normal hyperlinks without the
    target attribute (future link), because many user agents allow users
    to open links in another window or tab.

  *

    G200: Opening new windows and tabs from a link only when necessary
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G200>


        Common Failures for SC 3.2.5

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 3.2.5 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F60: Failure of Success Criterion 3.2.5 due to launching a new
    window when a user enters text into an input field
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F60>

  *

    F61: Failure of Success Criterion 3.2.5 due to complete change of
    main content through an automatic update that the user cannot
    disable from within the content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F61>

  *

    F9: Failure of Success Criterion 3.2.5 due to changing the context
    when the user removes focus from a form element
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F9>

  *

    F22: Failure of Success Criterion 3.2.5 due to opening windows that
    are not requested by the user
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F22>

  *

    F52: Failure of Success Criterion 3.2.1 and 3.2.5 due to opening a
    new window as soon as a new page is loaded
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F52>

  *

    F41: Failure of Success Criterion 2.2.1, 2.2.4, and 3.2.5 due to
    using meta refresh with a time-out
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F41>


      Key Terms

changes of context

    major changes in the content of the Web page
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> that, if
    made without user awareness, can disorient users who are not able to
    view the entire page simultaneously

    Changes in context include changes of:

     1.

        user agent
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>;

     2.

        viewport
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#viewportdef>;

     3.

        focus;

     4.

        content
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#contentdef> that
        changes the meaning of the Web page
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef>.

    /Note: /A change of content is not always a change of context.
    Changes in content, such as an expanding outline, dynamic menu, or a
    tab control do not necessarily change the context, unless they also
    change one of the above (e.g., focus).

    /Example: /Opening a new window, moving focus to a different
    component, going to a new page (including anything that would look
    to a user as if they had moved to a new page) or significantly
    re-arranging the content of a page are examples of changes of context.

mechanism

    process <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#processdef>
    or technique for achieving a result

    /Note 1: /The mechanism may be explicitly provided in the content,
    or may be relied upon
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#reliedupondef> to be
    provided by either the platform or by user agents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>,
    including assistive technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#atdef>.

    /Note 2: /The mechanism needs to meet all success criteria for the
    conformance level claimed.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Input Assistance*:
    Understanding Guideline 3.3

    *Guideline 3.3: * Help users avoid and correct mistakes.


      Intent of Guideline 3.3

Everyone makes mistakes. However, people with some disabilities have
more difficulty creating error-free input. In addition, it may be harder
for them to detect that they have made an error. Typical error
indication methods may not be obvious to them because of a limited field
of view, limited color perception, or use of assistive technology. This
guideline seeks to reduce the number of serious or irreversible errors
that are made, increase the likelihood that all errors will be noticed
by the user, and help users understand what they should do to correct an
error.


      Advisory Techniques for Guideline 3.3 (not success criteria specific)

Specific techniques for meeting each Success Criterion for this
guideline are listed in the understanding sections for each Success
Criterion (listed below). If there are techniques, however, for
addressing this guideline that do not fall under any of the success
criteria, they are listed here. These techniques are not required or
sufficient for meeting any success criteria, but can make certain types
of Web content more accessible to more people.

  *

    Hiding optional form fields (future link)


    *Error Identification*:
    Understanding SC 3.3.1

    *3.3.1
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#minimize-error-identified>
    Error Identification:* If an input error
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#input-errordef> is
    automatically detected, the item that is in error is identified and
    the error is described to the user in text. (Level A)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that users are aware
that an error has occurred and can determine what is wrong. The error
message should be as specific as possible. In the case of an
unsuccessful form submission, re-displaying the form and indicating the
fields in error is insufficient for some users to perceive that an error
has occurred. Screen reader users, for example, will not know there was
an error until they encounter one of the indicators. They may abandon
the form altogether before encountering the error indicator, thinking
that the page simply is not functional.

The identification and description of an error can be combined with
programmatic information that user agents or assistive technologies can
use to identify an error and provide error information to the user. For
example, certain technologies can specify that the user's input must not
fall outside a specific range, or that a form field is required.
Currently, few technologies support this kind of programmatic
information, but the Success Criterion does not require, nor prevent it.

It is perfectly acceptable to indicate the error in other ways such as
image, color etc, in addition to the text description.

See also /Understanding Success Criterion 3.3.3 Error Suggestion
<#minimize-error-suggestions>/.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 3.3.1

  *

    Providing information about input errors in text allows users who
    are blind or colorblind to perceive the fact that an error occurred.

  *

    This Success Criterion may help people with cognitive, language, and
    learning disabilities who have difficulty understanding the meaning
    represented by icons and other visual cues.


      Examples of Success Criterion 3.3.1

  *

    *Identifying errors in a form submission*

    An airline Web site offers a special promotion on discounted
    flights. The user is asked to complete a simple form that asks for
    personal information such as name, address, phone number, seating
    preference and e-mail address. If any of the fields of the form are
    either not completed or completed incorrectly, an alert is displayed
    notifying the user which field or fields were missing or incorrect.

    /Note: /This Success Criterion does not mean that color or text
    styles cannot be used to indicate errors. It simply requires that
    errors also be identified using text. In this example, two asterisks
    are used in addition to color.

  *

    *Providing multiple cues*

    The user fails to fill in two fields on the form. In addition to
    describing the error and providing a unique character to make it
    easy to search for the fields, the fields are highlighted in yellow
    to make it easier to visually search for them as well.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 3.3.1 - Error
      Identification

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

*Instructions:* Select the situation below that matches your content.
Each situation includes numbered techniques (or combinations of
techniques) that the Working Group deems to be sufficient for that
situation.


          Situation A: If a form contains fields for which information
          from the user is mandatory.

 1.

    G83: Providing text descriptions to identify required fields that
    were not completed
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G83>

 2.

    SCR18: Providing client-side validation and alert
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SCR18>
    (Scripting)

 3.

    PDF5: Indicating required form controls in PDF forms
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/PDF5> (PDF)

 4.

    SL35: Using the Validation and ValidationSummary APIs to Implement
    Client Side Forms Validation in Silverlight
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL35>
    (Silverlight)


          Situation B: If information provided by the user is required
          to be in a specific data format or of certain values.

 1.

    G84: Providing a text description when the user provides information
    that is not in the list of allowed values
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G84>

 2.

    G85: Providing a text description when user input falls outside the
    required format or values
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G85>

 3.

    SCR18: Providing client-side validation and alert
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SCR18>
    (Scripting)

 4.

    SCR32: Providing client-side validation and adding error text via
    the DOM <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SCR32>
    (Scripting)

 5.

    FLASH12: Providing client-side validation and adding error text via
    the accessible description
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH12> (Flash)

 6.

    PDF22: Indicating when user input falls outside the required format
    or values in PDF forms
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/PDF22> (PDF)

 7.

    SL35: Using the Validation and ValidationSummary APIs to Implement
    Client Side Forms Validation in Silverlight
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL35>
    (Silverlight)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 3.3.1

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    G139: Creating a mechanism that allows users to jump to errors
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G139>

  *

    Validating form submissions on the server (future link)

  *

    Re-displaying a form with a summary of errors (future link)

  *

    Providing error notification as the user enters information (future
    link)

  *

    Including error notification information in the page title (future link)

  *

    Highlighting or visually emphasizing errors where they occur (future
    link)

  *

    Supplementing text with non-text content when reporting errors
    (future link)

  *

    G199: Providing success feedback when data is submitted successfully
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G199>

  *

    Using sounds to focus user's attention (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 3.3.1

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 3.3.1 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

input error

    information provided by the user that is not accepted

    /Note: / This includes:

     1.

        Information that is required by the Web page
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> but
        omitted by the user

     2.

        Information that is provided by the user but that falls outside
        the required data format or values

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Labels or Instructions*:
    Understanding SC 3.3.2

    *3.3.2
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#minimize-error-cues>
    Labels or Instructions:* Labels
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#labeldef> or
    instructions are provided when content requires user input. (Level A)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to help users avoid making
mistakes when their input is required. To help avoid mistakes it is good
user interface design to provide simple instructions and cues for
entering information. Some users with disabilities may be more likely to
make mistakes than users without disabilities or recovery from mistakes
may be more difficult, making mistake avoidance an important strategy
for users with disabilities. People with disabilities rely on well
documented forms and procedures to interact with a page. Blind users
need to know exactly what information should be entered into form fields
and what the available choices are. Simple instructions visually
connected to form controls can assist users with cognitive disabilities
or those accessing a page using a screen magnifier.

The intent of this Success Criterion is not to clutter the page with
unnecessary information but to provide important cues and instructions
that will benefit people with disabilities. Too much information or
instruction can be just as much of a hindrance as too little. The goal
is to make certain that enough information is provided for the user to
accomplish the task without undue confusion or navigation.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 3.3.2

  *

    Label elements associated with input elements insure that
    information about the input field is spoken by screen readers when
    the field receives focus.

  *

    Field labels located in close proximity to the associated field
    assist users of screen magnifiers because the field and label are
    more likely to visible within the magnified area of the page.

  *

    Providing examples of expected data formats help users with
    cognitive, language and learning disabilities to enter information
    correctly.

  *

    Clearly identifying required fields prevents a keyboard only user
    from submitting an incomplete form and having to navigate the
    redisplayed form to find the uncompleted field and provide the
    missing information.


      Examples of Success Criterion 3.3.2

  *

    A field which requires the user to enter the two character
    abbreviation for a US state has a link next to it which will popup
    an alphabetized list of state names and the correct abbreviation.

  *

    A field for entering a date contains initial text which indicates
    the correct format for the date.

  *

    A field for entering a given name is clearly labeled with "Given
    Name" and the field for family name is labeled "Family Name" to
    avoid confusion over which name is requested.

  *

    A U.S. phone number separates the area code, exchange, and number
    into three fields. Parentheses surround the area code field, and a
    dash separates the exchange and number fields. While the punctuation
    provides visual clues to those familiar with the U.S. telephone
    number format, the punctuation is not sufficient to label the
    fields. The single "Phone number" label also cannot label all three
    fields. To address this, the three fields are grouped in a
    |fieldset| with the |legend| "Phone number". Visual labels for the
    fields (beyond the punctuation) cannot be provided in the design, so
    invisible labels are provided with the "title" attribute to each of
    the three fields. The value of this attribute for the three fields
    are, respectively, "Area Code", "Exchange", and "Number".


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 3.3.2 - Labels or
      Instructions

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G131: Providing descriptive labels
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G131> *AND*
    one of the following:

      *

        G89: Providing expected data format and example
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G89>

      *

        G184: Providing text instructions at the beginning of a form or
        set of fields that describes the necessary input
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G184>

      *

        G162: Positioning labels to maximize predictability of
        relationships
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G162>

      *

        G83: Providing text descriptions to identify required fields
        that were not completed
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G83>

      *

        H90: Indicating required form controls using label or legend
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H90> (HTML)

      *

        FLASH10: Indicating required form controls in Flash
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH10>
        (Flash)

      *

        PDF5: Indicating required form controls in PDF forms
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/PDF5> (PDF)

 2.

    H44: Using label elements to associate text labels with form
    controls <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H44>
    (HTML)

 3.

    FLASH32: Using auto labeling to associate text labels with form
    controls
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH32> (Flash)

 4.

    FLASH29: Setting the label property for form components
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH29> (Flash)

 5.

    FLASH25: Labeling a form control by setting its accessible name
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH25> (Flash)

 6.

    PDF10: Providing labels for interactive form controls in PDF
    documents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/PDF10> (PDF)

 7.

    SL26: Using LabeledBy to Associate Labels and Targets in Silverlight
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL26>
    (Silverlight)

 8.

    H71: Providing a description for groups of form controls using
    fieldset and legend elements
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H71> (HTML)

 9.

    FLASH8: Adding a group name to the accessible name of a form control
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH8> (Flash)

10.

    H65: Using the title attribute to identify form controls when the
    label element cannot be used
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H65> (HTML)

11.

    SL8: Displaying HelpText in Silverlight User Interfaces
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL8>
    (Silverlight)

12.

    G167: Using an adjacent button to label the purpose of a field
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G167>

/Note: /The techniques at the end of the above list should be considered
"last resort" and only used when the other techniques cannot be applied
to the page. The earlier techniques are preferred because they increase
accessibility to a wider user group.


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 3.3.2

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    G13: Describing what will happen before a change to a form control
    that causes a change of context to occur is made
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G13>

  *

    ARIA1: Using the aria-describedby property to provide a descriptive
    label for input controls
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/ARIA1> (ARIA)

  *

    ARIA2: Identifying required fields with the aria-required property
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/ARIA2> (ARIA)

  *

    SL19: Providing User Instructions With AutomationProperties.HelpText
    in Silverlight
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL19>
    (Silverlight)

  *

    Providing linear form design and grouping similar items (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 3.3.2

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 3.3.2 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F82: Failure of Success Criterion 3.3.2 by visually formatting a set
    of phone number fields but not including a text label
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F82>


      Key Terms

label

    text <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#textdef> or
    other component with a text alternative
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#text-altdef> that is
    presented to a user to identify a component within Web content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#contentdef>

    /Note 1: / A label is presented to all users whereas the name
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#namedef> may be
    hidden and only exposed by assistive technology. In many (but not
    all) cases the name and the label are the same.

    /Note 2: /The term label is not limited to the label element in HTML.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Error Suggestion*:
    Understanding SC 3.3.3

    *3.3.3
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#minimize-error-suggestions>
    Error Suggestion:* If an input error
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#input-errordef> is
    automatically detected and suggestions for correction are known,
    then the suggestions are provided to the user, unless it would
    jeopardize the security or purpose of the content. (Level AA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that users receive
appropriate suggestions for correction of an input error if it is possible.

Success Criterion 3.3.1 provides for notification of errors. However,
persons with cognitive limitations may find it difficult to understand
how to correct the errors. People with visual disabilities may not be
able to figure out exactly how to correct the error. In the case of an
unsuccessful form submission, users may abandon the form because they
may be unsure of how to correct the error even though they are aware
that it has occurred.

The content author may provide the description of the error, or the user
agent may provide the description of the error based on
technology-specific, programmatically determined information.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 3.3.3

  *

    Providing information about how to correct input errors allows users
    who have learning disabilities to fill in a form successfully. Users
    who are blind or have impaired vision understand more easily the
    nature of the input error and how to correct it. People with motion
    impairment can reduce the number of times they need to change an
    input value.


      Examples of Success Criterion 3.3.3

  *

    *Additional Help for Correcting An Input Error*

    The result of a form that was not successfully submitted describes
    an input error in place in the page along with the correct input and
    offers additional help for the form field that caused the input error.

  *

    *Suggestions from a Limited Set of Values*

    An input field requires that a month name be entered. If the user
    enters "12," suggestions for correction may include

      o

        A list of the acceptable values, e.g., "Choose one of: January,
        February, March, April, May, June, July, August, September,
        October, November, December."

      o

        A description of the set of values, e.g., "Please provide the
        name of the month."

      o

        The conversion of the input data interpreted as a different
        month format, e.g., "Do you mean 'December'?"


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 3.3.3 - Error Suggestion

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.

/Note: / In some cases, more than one of these situations may apply. For
example, when a mandatory field also requires the data to be in a
specific format.


        Sufficient Techniques

*Instructions:* Select the situation below that matches your content.
Each situation includes numbered techniques (or combinations of
techniques) that the Working Group deems to be sufficient for that
situation.


          Situation A: If a mandatory field contains no information:

 1.

    G83: Providing text descriptions to identify required fields that
    were not completed
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G83>

 2.

    PDF5: Indicating required form controls in PDF forms
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/PDF5> (PDF)

 3.

    SL35: Using the Validation and ValidationSummary APIs to Implement
    Client Side Forms Validation in Silverlight
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL35>
    (Silverlight)


          Situation B: If information for a field is required to be in a
          specific data format:

 1.

    G85: Providing a text description when user input falls outside the
    required format or values
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G85>

 2.

    G177: Providing suggested correction text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G177>

 3.

    SCR18: Providing client-side validation and alert
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SCR18>
    (Scripting)

 4.

    SCR32: Providing client-side validation and adding error text via
    the DOM <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SCR32>
    (Scripting)

 5.

    FLASH12: Providing client-side validation and adding error text via
    the accessible description
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH12> (Flash)

 6.

    PDF22: Indicating when user input falls outside the required format
    or values in PDF forms
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/PDF22> (PDF)


          Situation C: Information provided by the user is required to
          be one of a limited set of values:

 1.

    G84: Providing a text description when the user provides information
    that is not in the list of allowed values
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G84>

 2.

    G177: Providing suggested correction text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G177>

 3.

    SCR18: Providing client-side validation and alert
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SCR18>
    (Scripting)

 4.

    SCR32: Providing client-side validation and adding error text via
    the DOM <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SCR32>
    (Scripting)

 5.

    FLASH12: Providing client-side validation and adding error text via
    the accessible description
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH12> (Flash)

 6.

    PDF22: Indicating when user input falls outside the required format
    or values in PDF forms
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/PDF22> (PDF)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 3.3.3

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    G139: Creating a mechanism that allows users to jump to errors
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G139>

  *

    Making error messages easy to understand and distinguishable from
    other text in the Web page (future link)

  *

    Validating form submissions on the server (future link)

  *

    When mandatory information has not been provided, including
    descriptions or examples of correct information in addition to
    identifying the field as mandatory (future link)

  *

    Repeating and emphasizing suggestions for correcting each input
    error in the context of its form field (future link)

  *

    Providing a way for the user to skip from each item in a list of
    suggestions to its corresponding form field (future link)

  *

    Providing additional contextual help for the form field requiring
    change (future link)

  *

    Accepting input data in a variety of formats (future link)

  *

    G199: Providing success feedback when data is submitted successfully
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G199>


          Techniques for providing suggestions to the user (Advisory)

  *

    Providing a text description that contains information about the
    number of input errors, suggestions for corrections to each item,
    and instructions on how to proceed (future link)

  *

    Providing a text description that contains suggestions for
    correction as the first item (or one of the first items) of content,
    or emphasizing this information in the content (future link)

  *

    Displaying errors and suggestions in the context of the original
    form (for example, re-displaying a form where input errors and
    suggestions for correction are highlighted and displayed in the
    context of the original form) (future link)


          HTML Techniques (Advisory)

  *

    Providing "correct examples" for data and data formats as initial
    text in mandatory form fields (future link)

  *

    Providing links to suggested correction text "close to" form fields,
    or providing the suggested correction text itself directly on the
    Web page "next to" form fields (future link)


          Client-Side Scripting Techniques (Advisory)

  *

    SCR18: Providing client-side validation and alert
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SCR18>
    (Scripting)

  *

    Providing client-side validation and adding error text via the DOM
    (future link)

  *

    Calling a function from the submit action of a form to perform
    client side validation (future link)


          WAI-ARIA Techniques (Advisory)

  *

    ARIA2: Identifying required fields with the aria-required property
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/ARIA2> (ARIA)

  *

    ARIA3: Identifying valid range information with the aria-valuemin
    and aria-valuemax properties
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/ARIA3> (ARIA)


        Common Failures for SC 3.3.3

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 3.3.3 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

input error

    information provided by the user that is not accepted

    /Note: / This includes:

     1.

        Information that is required by the Web page
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> but
        omitted by the user

     2.

        Information that is provided by the user but that falls outside
        the required data format or values

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Error Prevention (Legal, Financial, Data)*:
    Understanding SC 3.3.4

    *3.3.4
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#minimize-error-reversible>
    Error Prevention (Legal, Financial, Data):* For Web pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> that
    cause legal commitments
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#legalcommitmentsdef>
    or financial transactions for the user to occur, that modify or
    delete user-controllable
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#user-controllabledef> data
    in data storage systems, or that submit user test responses, at
    least one of the following is true: (Level AA)

     1.

        *Reversible: * Submissions are reversible.

     2.

        *Checked: * Data entered by the user is checked for input errors
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#input-errordef>
        and the user is provided an opportunity to correct them.

     3.

        *Confirmed: * A mechanism
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#mechanismdef> is
        available for reviewing, confirming, and correcting information
        before finalizing the submission.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to help users with disabilities
avoid serious consequences as the result of a mistake when performing an
action that cannot be reversed. For example, purchasing non-refundable
airline tickets or submitting an order to purchase stock in a brokerage
account are financial transactions with serious consequences. If a user
has made a mistake on the date of air travel, he or she could end up
with a ticket for the wrong day that cannot be exchanged. If the user
made a mistake on the number of stock shares to be purchased, he or she
could end up purchasing more stock than intended. Both of these types of
mistakes involve transactions that take place immediately and cannot be
altered afterwards, and can be very costly. Likewise, it may be an
unrecoverable error if users unintentionally modify or delete data
stored in a database that they later need to access, such as their
travel profile in a travel services Web site. Test data is included in
this provision because, in order for tests to be valid, users are not
allowed to modify their answers once submitted; so users need to be able
to ensure that their submission is correct.

Users with disabilities may be more likely to make mistakes. People with
reading disabilities may transpose numbers and letters, and those with
motor disabilities may hit keys by mistake. Providing the ability to
reverse actions allows users to correct a mistake that could result in
serious consequences. Providing the ability to review and correct
information gives the user an opportunity to detect a mistake before
taking an action that has serious consequences.

User-controllable data is data that is intended to be accessed by users.
(e.g., name and address for the user's account.) It does not refer such
things as internet logs and search engine monitoring data.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 3.3.4

  *

    Providing safeguards to avoid serious consequences resulting from
    mistakes helps users with all disabilities who may be more likely to
    make mistakes.


      Examples of Success Criterion 3.3.4

  *

    /Order confirmation./

    A Web retailer offers on-line shopping for customers. When an order
    is submitted, the order information—including items ordered,
    quantity of each ordered item, shipping address, and payment
    method—are displayed so that the user can inspect the order for
    correctness. The user can either confirm the order or make changes.

  *

    /Stock sale:/

    A financial services Web site lets users buy and sell stock online.
    When a user submits an order to buy or sell stock, the system checks
    to see whether or not the market is open. If it is after hours, the
    user is alerted that the transaction will be an after-hours
    transaction, is told about the risks of trading outside of regular
    market hours, and given the opportunity to cancel or confirm the order.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 3.3.4 - Error
      Prevention (Legal, Financial, Data)

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

*Instructions:* Select the situation below that matches your content.
Each situation includes numbered techniques (or combinations of
techniques) that the Working Group deems to be sufficient for that
situation.


          Situation A: If an application causes a legal transaction to
          occur, such as making a purchase or submitting an income tax
          return:

 1.

    G164: Providing a stated period oftime after submission of the form
    when the order canwithin which an online request (or transaction)
    may be updatedamended or canceled by the user after making the
    request <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G164>

 2.

    G98: Providing the ability for the user to review and correct
    answers before submitting
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G98>

 3.

    G155: Providing a checkbox in addition to a submit button
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G155>


          Situation B: If an action causes information to be deleted:

 1.

    G99: Providing the ability to recover deleted information
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G99>

 2.

    G168: Requesting confirmation to continue with selected action
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G168>

 3.

    G155: Providing a checkbox in addition to a submit button
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G155>


          Situation C: If the Web page includes a testing application:

 1.

    G98: Providing the ability for the user to review and correct
    answers before submitting
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G98>

 2.

    G168: Requesting confirmation to continue with selected action
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G168>


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 3.3.4

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Informing the user what irreversible action is about to happen
    (future link)

  *

    SCR18: Providing client-side validation and alert
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SCR18>
    (Scripting)

  *

    SL35: Using the Validation and ValidationSummary APIs to Implement
    Client Side Forms Validation in Silverlight
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL35>
    (Silverlight)

  *

    Placing focus in the field containing the error (future link)

  *

    Avoiding use of the same words or letter combinations to begin each
    item of a drop-down list (future link)

  *

    G199: Providing success feedback when data is submitted successfully
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G199>


        Common Failures for SC 3.3.4

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 3.3.4 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

Web page

    a non-embedded resource obtained from a single URI using HTTP plus
    any other resources that are used in the rendering or intended to be
    rendered together with it by a user agent
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>

    /Note 1: /Although any "other resources" would be rendered together
    with the primary resource, they would not necessarily be rendered
    simultaneously with each other.

    /Note 2: /For the purposes of conformance with these guidelines, a
    resource must be "non-embedded" within the scope of conformance to
    be considered a Web page.

    /Example 1: /A Web resource including all embedded images and media.

    /Example 2: /A Web mail program built using Asynchronous JavaScript
    and XML (AJAX). The program lives entirely at
    http://example.com/mail, but includes an inbox, a contacts area and
    a calendar. Links or buttons are provided that cause the inbox,
    contacts, or calendar to display, but do not change the URI of the
    page as a whole.

    /Example 3: /A customizable portal site, where users can choose
    content to display from a set of different content modules.

    /Example 4: /When you enter "http://shopping.example.com/" in your
    browser, you enter a movie-like interactive shopping environment
    where you visually move around in a store dragging products off of
    the shelves around you and into a visual shopping cart in front of
    you. Clicking on a product causes it to be demonstrated with a
    specification sheet floating alongside. This might be a single-page
    Web site or just one page within a Web site.

input error

    information provided by the user that is not accepted

    /Note: / This includes:

     1.

        Information that is required by the Web page
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> but
        omitted by the user

     2.

        Information that is provided by the user but that falls outside
        the required data format or values

legal commitments

    transactions where the person incurs a legally binding obligation or
    benefit

    /Example: /A marriage license, a stock trade (financial and legal),
    a will, a loan, adoption, signing up for the army, a contract of any
    type, etc.

mechanism

    process <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#processdef>
    or technique for achieving a result

    /Note 1: /The mechanism may be explicitly provided in the content,
    or may be relied upon
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#reliedupondef> to be
    provided by either the platform or by user agents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>,
    including assistive technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#atdef>.

    /Note 2: /The mechanism needs to meet all success criteria for the
    conformance level claimed.

user-controllable

    data that is intended to be accessed by users

    /Note: /This does not refer to such things as Internet logs and
    search engine monitoring data.

    /Example: / Name and address fields for a user's account.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Help*:
    Understanding SC 3.3.5

    *3.3.5
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#minimize-error-context-help>
    Help:* Context-sensitive help
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#context-sensitivehelpdef>
    is available. (Level AAA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to help users avoid making
mistakes. Some users with disabilities may be more likely to make
mistakes than users without disabilities. Using context-sensitive help,
users find out how to perform an operation without losing track of what
they are doing.

Context-sensitive help only needs to be provided when the label is not
sufficient to describe all functionality. The existence of
context-sensitive help should be obvious to the user and they should be
able to obtain it whenever they require it.

The content author may provide the help text, or the user agent may
provide the help text based on technology-specific, programmatically
determined information.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 3.3.5

  *

    Assistance for text input helps individuals with writing
    disabilities and people with reading and intellectual disabilities
    who often have difficulty writing text in forms or other places that
    need text input.

  *

    Additionally, these kinds of assistance help people who are aging
    and have the same difficulty in text input and/or mouse operation.


      Examples of Success Criterion 3.3.5

  *

    *on-line job application*

    Some of the questions may be hard for new job seekers to understand.
    A help link next to each question provides instructions and
    explanations for each question.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 3.3.5 - Help

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

*Instructions:* Select the situation below that matches your content.
Each situation includes numbered techniques (or combinations of
techniques) that the Working Group deems to be sufficient for that
situation.


          Situation A: If a form requires text input:

 1.

    G71: Providing a help link on every Web page
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G71>

 2.

    G193: Providing help by an assistant in the Web page
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G193>

 3.

    G194: Providing spell checking and suggestions for text input
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G194>

 4.

    G184: Providing text instructions at the beginning of a form or set
    of fields that describes the necessary input
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G184>


          Situation B: If a form requires text input in an expected data
          format:

 1.

    G89: Providing expected data format and example
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G89>

 2.

    G184: Providing text instructions at the beginning of a form or set
    of fields that describes the necessary input
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G184>


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 3.3.5

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    H89: Using the title attribute to provide context-sensitive help
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H89> (HTML)

  *

    Checking byte of character and auto-converting to expected byte for
    text input if applicable (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 3.3.5

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 3.3.5 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

context-sensitive help

    help text that provides information related to the function
    currently being performed

    /Note: /Clear labels can act as context-sensitive help.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Error Prevention (All)*:
    Understanding SC 3.3.6

    *3.3.6
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#minimize-error-reversible-all>
    Error Prevention (All):* For Web pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> that
    require the user to submit information, at least one of the
    following is true: (Level AAA)

     1.

        *Reversible: * Submissions are reversible.

     2.

        *Checked: * Data entered by the user is checked for input errors
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#input-errordef>
        and the user is provided an opportunity to correct them.

     3.

        *Confirmed: * A mechanism
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#mechanismdef> is
        available for reviewing, confirming, and correcting information
        before finalizing the submission.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to help users with disabilities
avoid consequences that may result from making a mistake when submitting
form data. This criterion builds on Success Criterion 3.3.4
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#minimize-error-reversible>
in that it applies to all forms that require users to submit information.

Users with disabilities may be more likely to make mistakes and may have
more difficulty detecting or recovering from mistakes. People with
reading disabilities may transpose numbers and letters, and those with
motor disabilities may hit keys by mistake. Providing the ability to
reverse actions allows users to correct a mistake. Providing the ability
to review and correct information gives the user an opportunity to
detect a mistake before taking an action.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 3.3.6

  *

    Providing safeguards to avoid consequences resulting from mistakes
    helps users with all disabilities who may be more likely to make
    mistakes.


      Examples of Success Criterion 3.3.6

(none currently documented)


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 3.3.6 - Error
      Prevention (All)

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    Following the sufficient techniques for Success Criterion 3.3.4
    <https://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20120103/minimize-error-reversible.html#minimize-error-reversible-techniques-head>
    for all forms that require the user to submit information.


      Key Terms

Web page

    a non-embedded resource obtained from a single URI using HTTP plus
    any other resources that are used in the rendering or intended to be
    rendered together with it by a user agent
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>

    /Note 1: /Although any "other resources" would be rendered together
    with the primary resource, they would not necessarily be rendered
    simultaneously with each other.

    /Note 2: /For the purposes of conformance with these guidelines, a
    resource must be "non-embedded" within the scope of conformance to
    be considered a Web page.

    /Example 1: /A Web resource including all embedded images and media.

    /Example 2: /A Web mail program built using Asynchronous JavaScript
    and XML (AJAX). The program lives entirely at
    http://example.com/mail, but includes an inbox, a contacts area and
    a calendar. Links or buttons are provided that cause the inbox,
    contacts, or calendar to display, but do not change the URI of the
    page as a whole.

    /Example 3: /A customizable portal site, where users can choose
    content to display from a set of different content modules.

    /Example 4: /When you enter "http://shopping.example.com/" in your
    browser, you enter a movie-like interactive shopping environment
    where you visually move around in a store dragging products off of
    the shelves around you and into a visual shopping cart in front of
    you. Clicking on a product causes it to be demonstrated with a
    specification sheet floating alongside. This might be a single-page
    Web site or just one page within a Web site.

input error

    information provided by the user that is not accepted

    /Note: / This includes:

     1.

        Information that is required by the Web page
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> but
        omitted by the user

     2.

        Information that is provided by the user but that falls outside
        the required data format or values

mechanism

    process <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#processdef>
    or technique for achieving a result

    /Note 1: /The mechanism may be explicitly provided in the content,
    or may be relied upon
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#reliedupondef> to be
    provided by either the platform or by user agents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>,
    including assistive technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#atdef>.

    /Note 2: /The mechanism needs to meet all success criteria for the
    conformance level claimed.
