
------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Text Alternatives*:
    Understanding Guideline 1.1

    *Guideline 1.1: *Provide text alternatives for any non-text content
    so that it can be changed into other forms people need, such as
    large print, braille, speech, symbols or simpler language.


      Intent of Guideline 1.1

The purpose of this guideline is to ensure that all non-text content is
also available in text
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#textdef>. "Text" refers
to electronic text, not an image of text. Electronic text has the unique
advantage that it is presentation neutral. That is, it can be rendered
visually, auditorily, tactilely, or by any combination. As a result,
information rendered in electronic text can be presented in whatever
form best meets the needs of the user. It can also be easily enlarged,
spoken aloud so that it is easier for people with reading disabilities
to understand, or rendered in whatever tactile form best meets the needs
of a user.

/Note: /While changing the content into symbols includes changing it
into graphic symbols for people with developmental disorders and speech
comprehension difficulties, it is not limited to this use of symbols.


      Advisory Techniques for Guideline 1.1 (not success criteria specific)

Specific techniques for meeting each Success Criterion for this
guideline are listed in the understanding sections for each Success
Criterion (listed below). If there are techniques, however, for
addressing this guideline that do not fall under any of the success
criteria, they are listed here. These techniques are not required or
sufficient for meeting any success criteria, but can make certain types
of Web content more accessible to more people.

  *

    Providing sign language videos for audio-only files (future link)


    *Non-text Content*:
    Understanding SC 1.1.1

    *1.1.1
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#text-equiv-all>
    Non-text Content:* All non-text content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#non-text-contentdef>
    that is presented to the user has a text alternative
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#text-altdef> that
    serves the equivalent purpose, except for the situations listed
    below. (Level A)

      *

        *Controls, Input: * If non-text content is a control or accepts
        user input, then it has a name
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#namedef> that
        describes its purpose. (Refer to /Guideline 4.1
        <#ensure-compat>/ for additional requirements for controls and
        content that accepts user input.)

      *

        *Time-Based Media: * If non-text content is time-based media,
        then text alternatives at least provide descriptive
        identification of the non-text content. (Refer to /Guideline 1.2
        <#media-equiv>/ for additional requirements for media.)

      *

        *Test: * If non-text content is a test or exercise that would be
        invalid if presented in text
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#textdef>, then
        text alternatives at least provide descriptive identification of
        the non-text content.

      *

        *Sensory: * If non-text content is primarily intended to create
        a specific sensory experience
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#sensoryexpdef>,
        then text alternatives at least provide descriptive
        identification of the non-text content.

      *

        *CAPTCHA
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#CAPTCHAdef>: *If
        the purpose of non-text content is to confirm that content is
        being accessed by a person rather than a computer, then text
        alternatives that identify and describe the purpose of the
        non-text content are provided, and alternative forms of CAPTCHA
        using output modes for different types of sensory perception are
        provided to accommodate different disabilities.

      *

        *Decoration, Formatting, Invisible: *If non-text content is pure
        decoration
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#puredecdef>, is
        used only for visual formatting, or is not presented to users,
        then it is implemented in a way that it can be ignored by
        assistive technology
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#atdef>.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to make information conveyed by
non-text content accessible through the use of a text alternative. Text
alternatives are a primary way for making information accessible because
they can be rendered through any sensory modality (for example, visual,
auditory or tactile) to match the needs of the user. Providing text
alternatives allows the information to be rendered in a variety of ways
by a variety of user agents. For example, a person who cannot see a
picture can have the text alternative read aloud using synthesized
speech. A person who cannot hear an audio file can have the text
alternative displayed so that he or she can read it. In the future, text
alternatives will also allow information to be more easily translated
into sign language or into a simpler form of the same language.


        Note on CAPTCHA

CAPTCHAs are a controversial topic in the accessibility community. As is
described in the paper Inaccessibility of CAPTCHA
<http://www.w3.org/TR/turingtest/>, CAPTCHAs intrinsically push the
edges of human abilities in an attempt to defeat automated processes.
Every type of CAPTCHA will be unsolvable by users with certain
disabilities. However, they are widely used, and the Web Content
Accessibility Guidelines Working Group believes that if CAPTCHAs were
forbidden outright, Web sites would choose not to conform to WCAG rather
than abandon CAPTCHA. This would create barriers for a great many more
users with disabilities. For this reason the Working Group has chosen to
structure the requirement about CAPTCHA in a way that meets the needs of
most people with disabilities, yet is also considered adoptable by
sites. Requiring two different forms of CAPTCHA on a given site ensures
that most people with disabilities will find a form they can use.

Because some users with disabilities will still not be able to access
sites that meet the minimum requirements, the Working Group provides
recommendations for additional steps. Organizations motivated to conform
to WCAG should be aware of the importance of this topic and should go as
far beyond the minimum requirements of the guidelines as possible.
Additional recommended steps include:

  *

    Providing more than two modalities of CAPTCHAs

  *

    Providing access to a human customer service representative who can
    bypass CAPTCHA

  *

    Not requiring CAPTCHAs for authorized users


        Additional information

Non-text content can take a number of forms, and this Success Criterion
specifies how each is to be handled.

*For non-text content that is not covered by one of the other situations
listed below,* such as charts, diagrams, audio recordings, pictures, and
animations, text alternatives can make the same information available in
a form that can be rendered through any modality (for example, visual,
auditory or tactile). Short and long text alternatives can be used as
needed to convey the information in the non-text content. Note that
*prerecorded audio-only* and *prerecorded video-only* files are covered
here. *Live-audio-only* and *Live-video-only* files are covered below
(see 3rd paragraph following this one).

*For non-text content that is a control or accepts user input*, such as
images used as submit buttons, image maps or complex animations, a name
is provided to describe the purpose of the non-text content so that the
person at least knows what the non-text content is and why it is there.

*Non-text content that is time-based media* is made accessible through
/1.2 <#media-equiv>/. However, it is important that users know what it
is when they encounter it on a page so they can decide what action if
any they want to take with it. A text alternative that describes the
time-based media and/or gives its title is therefore provided.

*For Live Audio-only and live video-only content*, it can be much more
difficult to provide text alternatives that provide equivalent
information as live audio-only and live video-only content. For these
types of non-text content, text alternatives provide a descriptive label.

*Sometimes a test or exercise must be partially or completely presented
in non-text format.* Audio or visual information is provided that cannot
be changed to text because the test or exercise must be conducted using
that sense. For example, a hearing test would be invalid if a text
alternative were provided. A visual skill development exercise would
similarly make no sense in text form. And a spelling test with text
alternatives would not be very effective. For these cases, text
alternatives should be provided to describe the purpose of the non-text
content; of course, the text alternatives would not provide the same
information needed to pass the test.

*Sometimes content is primarily intended to create a specific sensory
experience* that words cannot fully capture. Examples include a symphony
performance, works of visual art etc. For such content, text
alternatives at least identify the non-text content with a descriptive
label and where possible, additional descriptive text. If the reason for
including the content in the page is known and can be described it is
helpful to include that information.

*Sometimes there are non-text exercises that are used to prove you are
human.* To avoid spam robots and other software from gaining access to a
site a device called a CAPTCHA is used. These usually involve visual or
auditory tasks that are beyond the current capabilities of Web robots.
Providing a text alternative to them would however make them operable by
Robots, thus defeating their purpose. In this case a text alternative
would describe the purpose of the CAPTCHA, and alternate forms using
different modalities would be provided to address the needs of people
with different disabilities.

*Sometimes there is non-text content that really is not meant to be seen
or understood by the user.* Transparent images used to move text over on
a page; an invisible image that is used to track usage statistics; and a
swirl in the corner that conveys no information but just fills up a
blank space to create an aesthetic effect are all examples of this.
Putting alternative text on such items just distracts people using
screen readers from the content on the page. Not marking the content in
any way, though, leaves users guessing what the non-text content is and
what information they may have missed (even though they have not missed
anything in reality). This type of non-text content, therefore, is
marked or implemented in a way that assistive technologies (AT) will
ignore it and not present anything to the user.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.1.1

  *

    This Success Criterion helps people who have difficulty perceiving
    visual content. Assistive technology can read text aloud, present it
    visually, or convert it to braille.

  *

    Text alternatives may help some people who have difficulty
    understanding the meaning of photographs, drawings, and other images
    (e.g., line drawings, graphic designs, paintings, three-dimensional
    representations), graphs, charts, animations, etc.

  *

    People who are deaf, are hard of hearing, or who are having trouble
    understanding audio information for any reason can read the text
    presentation. Research is ongoing regarding automatic translation of
    text into sign language.

  *

    People who are deaf-blind can read the text in braille.

  *

    Additionally, text alternatives support the ability to search for
    non-text content and to repurpose content in a variety of ways.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.1.1

 1.

    *A data chart*

    A bar chart compares how many widgets were sold in June, July, and
    August. The short label says, "Figure one - Sales in June, July and
    August." The longer description identifies the type of chart,
    provides a high-level summary of the data, trends and implications
    comparable to those available from the chart. Where possible and
    practical, the actual data is provided in a table.

 2.

    *An audio recording of a speech*

    The link to an audio clip says, "Chairman's speech to the assembly."
    A link to a text transcript is provided immediately after the link
    to the audio clip.

 3.

    *An animation that illustrates how a car engine works*

    An animation shows how a car engine works. There is no audio and the
    animation is part of a tutorial that describes how an engine works.
    Since the text of the tutorial already provides a full explanation,
    the image is an alternative for text and the text alternative
    includes only a brief description of the animation and refers to the
    tutorial text for more information.

 4.

    *A traffic Web camera*

    A Web site allows users to select from a variety of Web cameras
    positioned throughout a major city. After a camera is selected, the
    image updates every two minutes. A short text alternative identifies
    the Web camera as "traffic Web camera." The site also provides a
    table of travel times for each of the routes covered by the Web
    cameras. The table is also updated every two minutes.

 5.

    *A photograph of an historic event in a news story*

    A photograph of two world leaders shaking hands accompanies a news
    story about an international summit meeting. The text alternative
    says, "President X of Country X shakes hands with Prime Minister Y
    of country Y."

 6.

    *A photograph of a historic event in content discussing diplomatic
    relationships*

    The same image is used in a different context intended to explain
    nuances in diplomatic encounters. The image of the president shaking
    hands with the prime minister appears on a Web site discussing
    intricate diplomatic relationships. The first text alternative
    reads, "President X of country X shakes hands with Prime Minister Y
    of country Y on January 2, 2009." An additional text alternative
    describes the room where the leaders are standing as well as the
    expressions on the leaders' faces, and identifies the other people
    in the room. The additional description might be included on the
    same page as the photograph or in a separate file associated with
    the image through a link or other standard programmatic mechanism.

 7.

    *An audio recording of a press conference *

    A Web page includes a link to an audio recording of a press
    conference. The link text identifies the audio recording. The page
    also links to a text transcript of the press conference. The
    transcript includes a verbatim record of everything the speakers
    say. It identifies who is speaking as well as noting other
    significant sounds that are part of the recording, such as applause,
    laughter, questions from the audience, and so on.

 8.

    *An e-learning application *

    An e-learning application uses sound effects to indicate whether or
    not the answers are correct. The chime sound indicates that the
    answer is correct and the beep sound indicates that the answer is
    incorrect. A text description is also included so that people who
    can't hear or understand the sound understand whether the answer is
    correct or incorrect.

 9.

    *A linked thumbnail image *

    A thumbnail image of the front page of a newspaper links to the home
    page of the "Smallville Times". The text alternative says
    "Smallville Times".

10.

    *The same image used on different sites *

    Different alternatives for an image of the world: An image of the
    world that is used on a travel site as a link to the International
    Travel section has the text alternative "International Travel". The
    same image is used as a link on a university Web site with the text
    alternative "International Campuses".

11.

    *An image map *

    An image of a building floor plan is interactive, allowing the user
    to select a particular room and navigate to a page containing
    information about that room. The short text alternative describes
    the image and its interactive purpose: "Building floor plan. Select
    a room for more information."


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Excerpts from the NBA Tape Recording Manual, Third Edition
    <http://www.w3.org/2000/08/nba-manual/Overview.html>

  *

    Inaccessibility of CAPTCHA <http://www.w3.org/TR/turingtest/>

  *

    GAWDS Writing Better Alt Text
    <http://www.gawds.org/show.php?contentid=28>

  *

    All That Malarkey: Accessible Alternatives
    <http://www.stuffandnonsense.co.uk/archives/accessible_alternatives.html>


  *

    456 Berea Street: The Alt and Title Attributes
    <http://www.456bereastreet.com/archive/200412/the_alt_and_title_attributes/>


  *

    The Alt and Accessibility <http://green-beast.com/blog/?p=81>

  *

    Better Connected, Better Results: Alt Text
    <http://www.accessibilitynews.ca/cwdo/resources/resources.php?resources=187>



      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.1.1 - Non-text Content

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

*Instructions:* Select the situation below that matches your content.
Each situation includes numbered techniques (or combinations of
techniques) that the Working Group deems to be sufficient for that
situation.


          Situation A: If a short description can serve the same purpose
          and present the same information as the non-text content:

 1.

    G94: Providing short text alternative for non-text content that
    serves the same purpose and presents the same information as the
    non-text content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G94> using a
    *short* text alternative technique listed below


          Situation B: If a short description can *not* serve the same
          purpose and present the same information as the non-text
          content (e.g., a chart or diagram):

 1.

    G95: Providing short text alternatives that provide a brief
    description of the non-text content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G95> using a
    *short* text alternative technique listed below *AND* one of the
    following techniques for *long* description:

      *

        G92: Providing long description for non-text content that serves
        the same purpose and presents the same information
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G92> using
        a *long* text alternative technique listed below

      *

        G74: Providing a long description in text near the non-text
        content, with a reference to the location of the long
        description in the short description
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G74>

      *

        G73: Providing a long description in another location with a
        link to it that is immediately adjacent to the non-text content
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G73>


          Situation C: If non-text content is a control or accepts user
          input:

 1.

    G82: Providing a text alternative that identifies the purpose of the
    non-text content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G82> using a
    *short* text alternative technique listed below

 2.

    H44: Using label elements to associate text labels with form
    controls <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H44>
    (HTML)

 3.

    H65: Using the title attribute to identify form controls when the
    label element cannot be used
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H65> (HTML)

 4.

    FLASH32: Using auto labeling to associate text labels with form
    controls
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH32> (Flash)

 5.

    FLASH29: Setting the label property for form components
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH29> (Flash)

 6.

    FLASH25: Labeling a form control by setting its accessible name
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH25> (Flash)

 7.

    FLASH30: Specifying accessible names for image buttons
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH30> (Flash)

 8.

    FLASH27: Providing button labels that describe the purpose of a
    button
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH27> (Flash)

 9.

    FLASH6: Creating accessible hotspots using invisible buttons
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH6> (Flash)

10.

    SL18: Providing Text Equivalent for Nontext Silverlight Controls
    With AutomationProperties.Name
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL18>
    (Silverlight)

11.

    SL26: Using LabeledBy to Associate Labels and Targets in Silverlight
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL26>
    (Silverlight)

12.

    SL30: Using Silverlight Control Compositing and
    AutomationProperties.Name
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL30>
    (Silverlight)


          Situation D: If non-text content is time-based media
          (including live video-only and live audio-only); a test or
          exercise that would be invalid if presented in text; or
          primarily intended to create a specific sensory experience:

 1.

    Providing a descriptive label using a *short* text alternative
    technique listed below

 2.

    G68: Providing a descriptive labelshort text alternative that
    describes the purpose of live audio-only and live video-only content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G68> using a
    *short* text alternative technique listed below

 3.

    G100: Providing a short text alternative which is the accepted name
    or a descriptive name of the non-text content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G100> using a
    *short* text alternative technique listed below


          Situation E: If non-text content is a CAPTCHA:

 1.

    G143: Providing a text alternative that describes the purpose of the
    CAPTCHA <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G143>
    *AND* G144: Ensuring that the Web Page contains another CAPTCHA
    serving the same purpose using a different modality
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G144>


          Situation F: If the non-text content should be ignored by
          assistive technology:

 1.

    Implementing or marking the non-text content so that it will be
    ignored by assistive technology using one of the technology-specific
    techniques listed below

      *

        H67: Using null alt text and no title attribute on img elements
        for images that AT should ignore
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H67> (HTML)

      *

        C9: Using CSS to include decorative images
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C9> (CSS)

      *

        FLASH3: Marking objects in Flash so that they can be ignored by
        AT <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH3>
        (Flash)

      *

        PDF4: Hiding decorative images with the Artifact tag in PDF
        documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/PDF4> (PDF)


          *Short* text alternative techniques for use in sufficient
          techniques above

 1.

    H36: Using alt attributes on images used as submit buttons
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H36> (HTML)

 2.

    H2: Combining adjacent image and text links for the same resource
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H2> (HTML)

 3.

    H37: Using alt attributes on img elements
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H37> (HTML)

 4.

    H35: Providing text alternatives on applet elements
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H35> (HTML)

 5.

    FLASH1: Setting the name property for a non-text object
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH1> (Flash)

 6.

    PDF1: Applying text alternatives to images with the Alt entry in PDF
    documents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/PDF1> (PDF)

 7.

    H53: Using the body of the object element
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H53> (HTML)

 8.

    H24: Providing text alternatives for the area elements of image maps
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H24> (HTML)

 9.

    H86: Providing text alternatives for ASCII art, emoticons, and
    leetspeak <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H86>
    (HTML)

10.

    FLASH28: Providing text alternatives for ASCII art, emoticons, and
    leetspeak in Flash
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH28> (Flash)

11.

    H30: Providing link text that describes the purpose of a link for
    anchor elements
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H30> (HTML)

    /Note: /See /Understanding Success Criterion 2.4.4 Link Purpose (In
    Context) <#navigation-mechanisms-refs>/.

12.

    G196: Using a text alternative on one item within a group of images
    that describes all items in the group
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G196>

13.

    FLASH5: Combining adjacent image and text buttons for the same
    resource
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH5> (Flash)

14.

    SL5: Defining a Focusable Image Class for Silverlight
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL5>
    (Silverlight)


          *Long* text alternative techniques for use in sufficient
          techniques above

 1.

    H45: Using longdesc
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H45> (HTML)

 2.

    H53: Using the body of the object element
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H53> (HTML)

 3.

    FLASH2: Setting the description property for a non-text object in
    Flash <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH2>
    (Flash)

 4.

    FLASH11: Providing a longer text description of an object
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH11> (Flash)

 5.

    SL8: Displaying HelpText in Silverlight User Interfaces
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL8>
    (Silverlight)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.1.1

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.


          General Techniques for Informative Non-Text Content (Advisory)

  *

    Identifying informative non-text content (future link)

  *

    Keeping short descriptions short (future link)

  *

    Describing images that include text (future link)

  *

    Providing a longer description of the non-text content where only a
    descriptive label is required using a technology-specific technique
    (for an accessibility-supported content technology) for long
    description listed above (future link)

  *

    Providing different sizes for non-text content when it cannot have
    an equivalent accessible alternative (future link)

  *

    Using server-side scripts to resize images of text (future link)


          General Techniques for Live Non-Text Content (Advisory)

  *

    Linking to textual information that provides comparable information
    (e.g., for a traffic Webcam, a municipality could provide a link to
    the text traffic report.) (future link)


          General techniques to minimize the barrier of CAPTCHAs

  *

    Providing more than two modalities of CAPTCHAs (future link)

  *

    Providing access to a human customer service representative who can
    bypass CAPTCHA (future link)

  *

    Not requiring CAPTCHAs for authorized users (future link)


          HTML Techniques (Advisory)

  *

    H46: Using noembed with embed
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H46> (HTML)

  *

    Writing for browsers that do not support frame (future link)

  *

    Providing alternative content for iframe (future link)

  *

    H27: Providing text and non-text alternatives for object
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H27> (HTML)

  *

    Not using long descriptions for iframe (future link)

  *

    Providing redundant text links for client-side image maps (future link)


          CSS Techniques (Advisory)

  *

    C18: Using CSS margin and padding rules instead of spacer images for
    layout design
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C18> (CSS)

  *

    Using CSS background, :before or :after rules for decorative images
    instead of img elements (future link)

  *

    Displaying empty table cells (future link)


          WAI-ARIA Techniques (Advisory)

  *

    Using the ARIA presentation role to indicate elements are purely
    presentational (future link)


          Silverlight Techniques (Advisory)

  *

    SL19: Providing User Instructions With AutomationProperties.HelpText
    in Silverlight
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL19>
    (Silverlight)


          Metadata Techniques (Advisory)

  *

    Using metadata to associate text transcriptions with a video (future
    link)

  *

    Using metadata to associate text transcriptions with audio-only
    content (future link)

      o

        EXAMPLE: Providing, in metadata, URI(s) that points to an audio
        description and a text transcript of a video.

      o

        EXAMPLE: Providing, in metadata, URI(s) that point to several
        text transcripts (English, French, Dutch) of an audio file.


        Common Failures for SC 1.1.1

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.1.1 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F30: Failure of Success Criterion 1.1.1 and 1.2.1 due to using text
    alternatives that are not alternatives (e.g., filenames or
    placeholder text)
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F30>

  *

    F20: Failure of Success Criterion 1.1.1 and 4.1.2 due to not
    updating text alternatives when changes to non-text content occur
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F20>

  *

    F3: Failure of Success Criterion 1.1.1 due to using CSS to include
    images that convey important information
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F3>

  *

    F39: Failure of Success Criterion 1.1.1 due to providing a text
    alternative that is not null (e.g., alt="spacer" or alt="image") for
    images that should be ignored by assistive technology
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F39>

  *

    F38: Failure of Success Criterion 1.1.1 due to omitting the
    alt-attribute for non-text content used for decorative purposes only
    in HTML <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F38>

  *

    F71: Failure of Success Criterion 1.1.1 due to using text
    look-alikes to represent text without providing a text alternative
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F71>

  *

    F72: Failure of Success Criterion 1.1.1 due to using ASCII art
    without providing a text alternative
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F72>

  *

    F65: Failure of Success Criterion 1.1.1 due to omitting the alt
    attribute on img elements, area elements, and input elements of type
    "image" <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F65>

  *

    F67: Failure of Success Criterion 1.1.1 and 1.2.1 due to providing
    long descriptions for non-text content that does not serve the same
    purpose or does not present the same information
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F67>

  *

    F13: Failure of Success Criterion 1.1.1 and 1.4.1 due to having a
    text alternative that does not include information that is conveyed
    by color differences in the image
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F13>


      Key Terms

CAPTCHA

    initialism for "Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell
    Computers and Humans Apart"

    /Note 1: /CAPTCHA tests often involve asking the user to type in
    text that is displayed in an obscured image or audio file.

    /Note 2: /A Turing test is any system of tests designed to
    differentiate a human from a computer. It is named after famed
    computer scientist Alan Turing. The term was coined by researchers
    at Carnegie Mellon University. [CAPTCHA] <#CAPTCHA>

assistive technology (as used in this document)

    hardware and/or software that acts as a user agent
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>, or
    along with a mainstream user agent, to provide functionality to meet
    the requirements of users with disabilities that go beyond those
    offered by mainstream user agents

    /Note 1: / functionality provided by assistive technology includes
    alternative presentations (e.g., as synthesized speech or magnified
    content), alternative input methods (e.g., voice), additional
    navigation or orientation mechanisms, and content transformations
    (e.g., to make tables more accessible).

    /Note 2: /Assistive technologies often communicate data and messages
    with mainstream user agents by using and monitoring APIs.

    /Note 3: /The distinction between mainstream user agents and
    assistive technologies is not absolute. Many mainstream user agents
    provide some features to assist individuals with disabilities. The
    basic difference is that mainstream user agents target broad and
    diverse audiences that usually include people with and without
    disabilities. Assistive technologies target narrowly defined
    populations of users with specific disabilities. The assistance
    provided by an assistive technology is more specific and appropriate
    to the needs of its target users. The mainstream user agent may
    provide important functionality to assistive technologies like
    retrieving Web content from program objects or parsing markup into
    identifiable bundles.

    /Example: /Assistive technologies that are important in the context
    of this document include the following:

      *

        screen magnifiers, and other visual reading assistants, which
        are used by people with visual, perceptual and physical print
        disabilities to change text font, size, spacing, color,
        synchronization with speech, etc. in order to improve the visual
        readability of rendered text and images;

      *

        screen readers, which are used by people who are blind to read
        textual information through synthesized speech or braille;

      *

        text-to-speech software, which is used by some people with
        cognitive, language, and learning disabilities to convert text
        into synthetic speech;

      *

        speech recognition software, which may be used by people who
        have some physical disabilities;

      *

        alternative keyboards, which are used by people with certain
        physical disabilities to simulate the keyboard (including
        alternate keyboards that use head pointers, single switches,
        sip/puff and other special input devices.);

      *

        alternative pointing devices, which are used by people with
        certain physical disabilities to simulate mouse pointing and
        button activations.

name

    text by which software can identify a component within Web content
    to the user

    /Note 1: /The name may be hidden and only exposed by assistive
    technology, whereas a label
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#labeldef> is
    presented to all users. In many (but not all) cases, the label and
    the name are the same.

    /Note 2: /This is unrelated to the name attribute in HTML.

non-text content

    any content that is not a sequence of characters that can be
    programmatically determined
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#programmaticallydetermineddef>
    or where the sequence is not expressing something in human language
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#human-langdef>

    /Note: /This includes ASCII Art
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#asciiartdef> (which
    is a pattern of characters), emoticons, leetspeak (which uses
    character substitution), and images representing text

pure decoration

    serving only an aesthetic purpose, providing no information, and
    having no functionality

    /Note: /Text is only purely decorative if the words can be
    rearranged or substituted without changing their purpose.

    /Example: /The cover page of a dictionary has random words in very
    light text in the background.

specific sensory experience

    a sensory experience that is not purely decorative and does not
    primarily convey important information or perform a function

    /Example: / Examples include a performance of a flute solo, works of
    visual art etc.

text

    sequence of characters that can be programmatically determined
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#programmaticallydetermineddef>,
    where the sequence is expressing something in human language
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#human-langdef>

text alternative

    Text <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#textdef> that
    is programmatically associated with non-text content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#non-text-contentdef>
    or referred to from text that is programmatically associated with
    non-text content. Programmatically associated text is text whose
    location can be programmatically determined from the non-text content.

    /Example: /An image of a chart is described in text in the paragraph
    after the chart. The short text alternative for the chart indicates
    that a description follows.

    /Note: /Refer to Understanding Text Alternatives
    <https://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20120103/conformance.html#uc-text-alternatives-head>
    for more information.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Time-based Media*:
    Understanding Guideline 1.2

    *Guideline 1.2: *Provide alternatives for time-based media.


      Intent of Guideline 1.2

The purpose of this guideline is to provide access to time-based and
synchronized media.This includes media that is:

  *

    audio-only

  *

    video-only

  *

    audio-video

  *

    audio and/or video combined with interaction

To make it easy for authors to quickly determine which success criteria
apply to their content, the type of media each success criterion applies
to is included in its short name.

For *audio-only* or *video-only* media, you only need to apply the
success criteria that say "*audio-only*" or "*video-only*" in their
short name. If your media is not *audio-only* or *video-only*, then all
the rest of the success criteria apply.

Media can also be *live* or *prerecorded*. Each of the success criterion
short names clearly tells you if the success criterion applies to *live*
or *prerecorded* media.

*Synchronized media* is defined in the glossary as:

synchronized media

    audio <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodef> or
    video <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef>
    synchronized with another format for presenting information and/or
    with time-based interactive components, unless the media is a media
    alternative for text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#multimedia-alt-textdef>
    that is clearly labeled as such

Note that an audio file accompanied by interaction is covered here, as
is a video-only file that involves interaction. These are covered
because interaction must take place at a particular time. Having a text
transcript that said, "for more information, click now," would not be
very helpful since the reader would have no idea when the audio said,
"now." As a result, synchronized captions would be needed.

Sometimes, there is so much dialogue that audio description cannot fit
into existing pauses in the dialogue. The option at Level A to provide
an alternative for time-based media instead of audio description for
synchronized media would allow access to all of the information in the
synchronized media. This option also allows access to the visual
information in non-visual form when audio description is not provided
for some other reason.

For synchronized media that includes interaction, interactive elements
(for example links) could be embedded in the alternative for time-based
media.

This guideline also includes (at Level AAA) sign language interpretation
for synchronized media as well as an approach called extended audio
description. In extended audio description, the video is frozen
periodically to allow more audio description to take place than is
possible in the existing pauses in the dialogue. This is a case where
higher-level Success Criteria build upon the requirements of lower-level
Success Criterion with the intention of having cumulative, progressively
stronger, requirements.


      Advisory Techniques for Guideline 1.2 (not success criteria specific)

Specific techniques for meeting each Success Criterion for this
guideline are listed in the understanding sections for each Success
Criterion (listed below). If there are techniques, however, for
addressing this guideline that do not fall under any of the success
criteria, they are listed here. These techniques are not required or
sufficient for meeting any success criteria, but can make certain types
of Web content more accessible to more people.

  * All advisory techniques for this guideline relate to specific
    success criteria.


    *Audio-only and Video-only (Prerecorded)*:
    Understanding SC 1.2.1

    *1.2.1
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#media-equiv-av-only-alt>
    Audio-only and Video-only (Prerecorded):* For prerecorded
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#prerecordeddef>
    audio-only
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audio-onlydef> and
    prerecorded video-only
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#video-onlydef>
    media, the following are true, except when the audio or video is a
    media alternative for text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#multimedia-alt-textdef>
    and is clearly labeled as such: (Level A)

      *

        *Prerecorded Audio-only: *An alternative for time-based media
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#alt-time-based-mediadef>
        is provided that presents equivalent information for prerecorded
        audio-only content.

      *

        *Prerecorded Video-only: *Either an alternative for time-based
        media or an audio track is provided that presents equivalent
        information for prerecorded video-only content.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to make information conveyed by
prerecorded audio-only and prerecorded video-only content available to
all users. Alternatives for time-based media that are text based make
information accessible because text can be rendered through any sensory
modality (for example, visual, auditory or tactile) to match the needs
of the user. In the future, text could also be translated into symbols,
sign language or simpler forms of the language (future).

An example of pre-recorded video with no audio information or user
interaction is a silent movie. The purpose of the transcript is to
provide an equivalent to what is presented visually. For prerecorded
video content, authors have the option to provide an audio track. The
purpose of the audio alternative is to be an equivalent to the video.
This makes it possible for users with and without vision impairment to
review content simultaneously. The approach can also make it easier for
those with cognitive, language and learning disabilities to understand
the content because it would provide parallel presentation.

/Note: /A text equivalent is not required for audio that is provided as
an equivalent for video with no audio information. For example, it is
not required to caption video description that is provided as an
alternative to a silent movie.

See also /Understanding Success Criterion 1.2.9 Audio-only (Live)
<#media-equiv-live-audio-only>/


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.2.1

  *

    This Success Criterion helps people who have difficulty perceiving
    visual content. Assistive technology can read text alternatives
    aloud, present them visually, or convert them to braille.

  *

    Alternatives for timed-based media that are text based may help some
    people who have difficulty understanding the meaning of prerecorded
    video content.

  *

    People who are deaf, are hard of hearing, or who are having trouble
    understanding audio information for any reason can read the text
    presentation. Research is ongoing regarding automatic translation of
    text into sign language.

  *

    People who are deaf-blind can read the text in braille.

  *

    Additionally, text supports the ability to search for non-text
    content and to repurpose content in a variety of ways.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.2.1

  *

    *An audio recording of a speech*

    The link to an audio clip says, "Chairman's speech to the assembly."
    A link to a text transcript is provided immediately after the link
    to the audio clip.

  *

    *An audio recording of a press conference*

    A Web page includes a link to an audio recording of a press
    conference that identifies the audio recording. The page also links
    to a text transcript of the press conference. The transcript
    includes a verbatim record of everything the speakers say. It
    identifies who is speaking as well as noting other significant
    sounds that are part of the recording, such as applause, laughter,
    questions from the audience, and so on.

  *

    *An animation that illustrates how a car engine works*

    An animation shows how a car engine works. There is no audio and the
    animation is part of a tutorial that describes how an engine works.
    Since the text of the tutorial already provides a full explanation,
    the media is an alternative for text and the text alternative
    includes only a brief description of the animation and refers to the
    tutorial text for more information.

  *

    *A video-only file with an audio track*

    A silent movie includes an audio track which includes a description
    of the action in the video.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Overcoming the challenge of podcast transcription
    <http://www.rnib.org.uk/professionals/webaccessibility/wacblog/Lists/Posts/Post.aspx?List=be9c76d3-7ad0-4e03-a1a0-e6f6953b8178&ID=16>


  *

    uiAccess list of transcription services
    <http://www.uiaccess.com/transcripts/transcript_services.html>

  *

    Transcripts on the Web: Getting people to your podcasts and videos
    <http://www.uiaccess.com/transcripts/transcripts_on_the_web.html>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.2.1 - Audio-only
      and Video-only (Prerecorded)

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

*Instructions:* Select the situation below that matches your content.
Each situation includes numbered techniques (or combinations of
techniques) that the Working Group deems to be sufficient for that
situation.


          Situation A: If the content is prerecorded audio-only:

 1.

    G158: Providing an alternative for time-based media for audio-only
    content <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G158>

 2.

    SL17: Providing Static Alternative Content for Silverlight Media
    Playing in a MediaElement
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL17>
    (Silverlight)


          Situation B: If the content is prerecorded video-only:

 1.

    G159: Providing an alternative for time-based media for video-only
    content <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G159>

 2.

    G166: Providing audio that describes the important video content and
    describing it as such
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G166>

 3.

    SL17: Providing Static Alternative Content for Silverlight Media
    Playing in a MediaElement
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL17>
    (Silverlight)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.2.1

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Providing a transcript of a live audio only presentation after the
    fact (future link)

  *

    Linking to textual information that provides comparable information
    (e.g., for a traffic Webcam, a municipality could provide a link to
    the text traffic report.) (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 1.2.1

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.2.1 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F30: Failure of Success Criterion 1.1.1 and 1.2.1 due to using text
    alternatives that are not alternatives (e.g., filenames or
    placeholder text)
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F30>

  *

    F67: Failure of Success Criterion 1.1.1 and 1.2.1 due to providing
    long descriptions for non-text content that does not serve the same
    purpose or does not present the same information
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F67>


      Key Terms

alternative for time-based media

    document including correctly sequenced text descriptions of
    time-based visual and auditory information and providing a means for
    achieving the outcomes of any time-based interaction

    /Note: /A screenplay used to create the synchronized media content
    would meet this definition only if it was corrected to accurately
    represent the final synchronized media after editing.

audio-only

    a time-based presentation that contains only audio
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodef> (no video
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef> and no
    interaction)

media alternative for text

    media that presents no more information than is already presented in
    text (directly or via text alternatives)

    /Note: /A media alternative for text is provided for those who
    benefit from alternate representations of text. Media alternatives
    for text may be audio-only, video-only (including sign-language
    video), or audio-video.

prerecorded

    information that is not live
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#livedef>

video-only

    a time-based presentation that contains only video
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef> (no audio
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef> and no
    interaction)

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Captions (Prerecorded)*:
    Understanding SC 1.2.2

    *1.2.2
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#media-equiv-captions> Captions
    (Prerecorded):* Captions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#captionsdef> are
    provided for all prerecorded
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#prerecordeddef>
    audio <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodef>
    content in synchronized media
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#synchronizedmediadef>,
    except when the media is a media alternative for text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#multimedia-alt-textdef>
    and is clearly labeled as such. (Level A)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to enable people who are deaf or
hard of hearing to watch synchronized media presentations. Captions
provide the part of the content available via the audio track. Captions
not only include dialogue, but identify who is speaking and include
non-speech information conveyed through sound, including meaningful
sound effects.

It is acknowledged that at the present time there may be difficulty in
creating captions for time-sensitive material and this may result in the
author being faced with the choice of delaying the information until
captions are available, or publishing time-sensitive content that is
inaccessible to the deaf, at least for the interval until captions are
available. Over time, the tools for captioning as well as building the
captioning into the delivery process can shorten or eliminate such delays.

Captions are not needed when the synchronized media is, itself, an
alternate presentation of information that is also presented via text on
the Web page. For example, if information on a page is accompanied by a
synchronized media presentation that presents no more information than
is already presented in text, but is easier for people with cognitive,
language, or learning disabilities to understand, then it would not need
to be captioned since the information is already presented on the page
in text or in text alternatives (e.g., for images).

See also /Understanding Success Criterion 1.2.4 Captions (Live)
<#media-equiv-real-time-captions>/.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.2.2

  *

    People who are deaf or have a hearing loss can access the auditory
    information in the synchronized media content through captions.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.2.2

  *

    *A captioned tutorial*

    A video clip shows how to tie a knot. The captions read,

    "(music)

    Using rope to tie knots was an important skill

    for the likes of sailors, soldiers and woodsmen.."

    From Sample Transcript Formatting by Whit Anderson.

  *

    A complex legal document contains synchronized media clips for
    different paragraphs that show a person speaking the contents of the
    paragraph. Each clip is associated with its corresponding paragraph.
    No captions are provided for the synchronized media.

  *

    An instruction manual containing a description of a part and its
    necessary orientation is accompanied by a synchronized media clip
    showing the part in its correct orientation. No captions are
    provided for the synchronized media clip.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.


        Guides to Captioning

  *

    Captioning Key: Guidelines and Preferred Techniques
    <http://www.dcmp.org/captioningkey/>

  *

    Best Practices in Online Captioning
    <http://joeclark.org/access/captioning/bpoc/>


        SMIL Resources

  *

    Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language (SMIL) 1.0
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-smil/>

  *

    Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language (SMIL 2.0)
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/SMIL/>

  *

    Accessibility Features of SMIL <http://www.w3.org/TR/SMIL-access/>

  *

    NCAM Rich Media Accessibility, Accessible SMIL Templates
    <http://ncam.wgbh.org/invent_build/web_multimedia/accessible-digital-media-guide/guideline-h-multimedia#techH12>



        Other Captioning Resources

  *

    National Center for Accessible Media <http://ncam.wgbh.org/>

  *

    Quicktime Captioning Tutorial
    <http://webaim.org/techniques/captions/quicktime/>

  *

    RealPlayer Captioning Tutorial
    <http://webaim.org/techniques/captions/real/>

  *

    WebAIM: Captioning Resource List
    <http://webaim.org/resources/captioning/>

  *

    Windows Media Player Captioning Tutorial
    <http://webaim.org/techniques/captions/windows/>


        Captioning Tools

  *

    Media Access Generator (MAGpie)
    <http://ncam.wgbh.org/invent_build/web_multimedia/tools-guidelines>

  *

    World Caption Software <https://kb.wisc.edu/helpdesk/page.php?id=7096>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.2.2 - Captions
      (Prerecorded)

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G93: Providing open (always visible) captions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G93>

 2.

    G87: Providing closed captions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G87> using any
    readily available media format that has a video player that supports
    closed captioning

 3.

    G87: Providing closed captions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G87> using any
    of the technology-specific techniques below

      *

        SM11: Providing captions through synchronized text streams in
        SMIL 1.0
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SM11> (SMIL)

      *

        SM12: Providing captions through synchronized text streams in
        SMIL 2.0
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SM12> (SMIL)

      *

        FLASH9: Applying captions to prerecorded synchronized media
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH9>
        (Flash)

      *

        SL16: Providing Script-Embedded Text Captions for MediaElement
        Content
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL16>
        (Silverlight)

      *

        SL28: Using Separate Text-Format Text Captions for MediaElement
        Content
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL28>
        (Silverlight)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.2.2

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Providing a note saying "No sound is used in this clip" for
    video-only clips (future link)

  *

    Using SMIL 1.0 to provide captions for all languages for which there
    are audio tracks (future link)

  *

    Using SMIL 2.0 to provide captions for all languages for which there
    are audio tracks (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 1.2.2

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.2.2 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F8: Failure of Success Criterion 1.2.2 due to captions omitting some
    dialogue or important sound effects
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F8>

  *

    F75: Failure of Success Criterion 1.2.2 by providing synchronized
    media without captions when the synchronized media presents more
    information than is presented on the page
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F75>

  *

    F74: Failure of Success Criterion 1.2.2 and 1.2.8 due to not
    labeling a synchronized media alternative to text as an alternative
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F74>


      Key Terms

audio

    the technology of sound reproduction

    /Note: /Audio can be created synthetically (including speech
    synthesis), recorded from real world sounds, or both.

captions

    synchronized visual and/or text alternative
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#text-altdef> for
    both speech and non-speech audio information needed to understand
    the media content

    /Note 1: /Captions are similar to dialogue-only subtitles except
    captions convey not only the content of spoken dialogue, but also
    equivalents for non-dialogue audio information needed to understand
    the program content, including sound effects, music, laughter,
    speaker identification and location.

    /Note 2: /Closed Captions are equivalents that can be turned on and
    off with some players.

    /Note 3: /Open Captions are any captions that cannot be turned off.
    For example, if the captions are visual equivalent images of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#images-of-textdef>
    embedded in video
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef>.

    /Note 4: /Captions should not obscure or obstruct relevant
    information in the video.

    /Note 5: /In some countries, captions are called subtitles.

    /Note 6: / Audio descriptions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodescdef> can
    be, but do not need to be, captioned since they are descriptions of
    information that is already presented visually.

media alternative for text

    media that presents no more information than is already presented in
    text (directly or via text alternatives)

    /Note: /A media alternative for text is provided for those who
    benefit from alternate representations of text. Media alternatives
    for text may be audio-only, video-only (including sign-language
    video), or audio-video.

prerecorded

    information that is not live
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#livedef>

synchronized media

    audio <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodef> or
    video <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef>
    synchronized with another format for presenting information and/or
    with time-based interactive components, unless the media is a media
    alternative for text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#multimedia-alt-textdef>
    that is clearly labeled as such

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Audio Description or Media Alternative (Prerecorded)*:
    Understanding SC 1.2.3

    *1.2.3
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#media-equiv-audio-desc>
    Audio Description or Media Alternative (Prerecorded):* An
    alternative for time-based media
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#alt-time-based-mediadef>
    or audio description
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodescdef> of the
    prerecorded
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#prerecordeddef>
    video <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef>
    content is provided for synchronized media
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#synchronizedmediadef>,
    except when the media is a media alternative for text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#multimedia-alt-textdef>
    and is clearly labeled as such. (Level A)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to provide people who are blind
or visually impaired access to the visual information in a synchronized
media presentation. This Success Criterion describes two approaches,
either of which can be used.

One approach is to provide audio description of the video content. The
audio description augments the audio portion of the presentation with
the information needed when the video portion is not available. During
existing pauses in dialogue, audio description provides information
about actions, characters, scene changes, and on-screen text that are
important and are not described or spoken in the main sound track.

The second approach involves providing all of the information in the
synchronized media (both visual and auditory) in text form. An
alternative for time-based media provides a running description of all
that is going on in the synchronized media content. The alternative for
time-based media reads something like a screenplay or book. Unlike audio
description, the description of the video portion is not constrained to
just the pauses in the existing dialogue. Full descriptions are provided
of all visual information, including visual context, actions and
expressions of actors, and any other visual material. In addition,
non-speech sounds (laughter, off-screen voices, etc.) are described, and
transcripts of all dialogue are included. The sequence of description
and dialogue transcripts are the same as the sequence in the
synchronized media itself. As a result, the alternative for time-based
media can provide a much more complete representation of the
synchronized media content than audio description alone.

If there is any interaction as part of the synchronized media
presentation (e.g., "press now to answer the question") then the
alternative for time-based media would provide hyperlinks or whatever is
needed to provide the same functionality.

/Note 1: / For 1.2.3, 1.2.5, and 1.2.7, if all of the information in the
video track is already provided in the audio track, no audio description
is necessary.

/Note 2: / 1.2.3, 1.2.5, and 1.2.8 overlap somewhat with each other.
This is to give the author some choice at the minimum conformance level,
and to provide additional requirements at higher levels. At Level A in
Success Criterion 1.2.3, authors do have the choice of providing either
an audio description or a full text alternative. If they wish to conform
at Level AA, under Success Criterion 1.2.5 authors must provide an audio
description - a requirement already met if they chose that alternative
for 1.2.3, otherwise an additional requirement. At Level AAA under
Success Criterion 1.2.8 they must provide an extended text description.
This is an additional requirement if both 1.2.3 and 1.2.5 were met by
providing an audio description only. If 1.2.3 was met, however, by
providing a text description, and the 1.2.5 requirement for an audio
description was met, then 1.2.8 does not add new requirements.

See also /Understanding Success Criterion 1.2.5 Audio Description
(Prerecorded) <#media-equiv-audio-desc-only>/, /Understanding Success
Criterion 1.2.7 Extended Audio Description (Prerecorded)
<#media-equiv-extended-ad>/ and /Understanding Success Criterion 1.2.8
Media Alternative (Prerecorded) <#media-equiv-text-doc>/.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.2.3

  *

    This Success Criterion may help some people who have difficulty
    watching video or other synchronized media content, including people
    who have difficulty perceiving or understanding moving images.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.2.3

  *

    *A movie with audio description.*

    *Describer: *A title, "Teaching Evolution Case Studies. Bonnie
    Chen." A teacher shows photographs of birds with long, thin beaks.

    *Bonnie Chen: *"These photos were all taken at the Everglades."

    *Describer: *The teacher hands each student two flat, thin wooden
    sticks.

    *Bonnie Chen: *"Today you will pretend to be a species of wading
    bird that has a beak like this."

    *Describer: *The teacher holds two of the sticks to her mouth making
    the shape of a beak.

    Transcript of audio based on the first few minutes of "Teaching
    Evolution Case Studies, Bonnie Chen
    <http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/evolution/educators/teachstuds/tvideos.html>"
    (copyright WGBH and Clear Blue Sky Productions, Inc.)

  *

    *An alternative for time-based media for a training video*

    A company purchases a Training video for use by its employees and
    puts it on the companies intranet. The video involves explaining use
    of a new technology and has a person talking and showing things at
    the same time. Since there is no place to insert audio description
    of the visual demonstrations during gaps in dialogue, the company
    provides an alternative for time-based media that all employees,
    including those who cannot see the demonstrations, can use to better
    understand what is being presented.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    NCAM Rich Media Accessibility, Accessible SMIL Templates
    <http://ncam.wgbh.org/invent_build/web_multimedia/accessible-digital-media-guide/guideline-h-multimedia#techH12>


  *

    Standard Techniques in Audio Description
    <http://joeclark.org/access/description/ad-principles.html>

  *

    Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language (SMIL) 1.0
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-smil/>

  *

    Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language (SMIL 2.0)
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/SMIL/>

  *

    Accessibility Features of SMIL <http://www.w3.org/TR/SMIL-access/>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.2.3 - Audio
      Description or Media Alternative (Prerecorded)

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G69: Providing an alternative for time based media
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G69> using one
    of the following techniques

      *

        G58: Placing a link to the alternative for time-based media
        immediately next to the non-text content
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G58>

      *

        SL17: Providing Static Alternative Content for Silverlight Media
        Playing in a MediaElement
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL17>
        (Silverlight)

 2.

    Linking to the alternative for time-based media using one of the
    following techniques

      *

        H53: Using the body of the object element
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H53> (HTML)

 3.

    G78: Providing a second, user-selectable, audio track that includes
    audio descriptions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G78>

 4.

    G78: Providing a second, user-selectable, audio track that includes
    audio descriptions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G78> *AND*
    SL1: Accessing Alternate Audio Tracks in Silverlight Media
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL1>
    (Silverlight)

 5.

    G173: Providing a version of a movie with audio descriptions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G173> using
    one of the following:

      *

        SM6: Providing audio description in SMIL 1.0
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SM6> (SMIL)

      *

        SM7: Providing audio description in SMIL 2.0
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SM7> (SMIL)

      *

        FLASH26: Applying audio descriptions to Flash video
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH26>
        (Flash)

      *

        SL1: Accessing Alternate Audio Tracks in Silverlight Media
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL1>
        (Silverlight)

      *

        Using any player that supports audio and video

 6.

    G8: Providing a movie with extended audio descriptions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G8> using one
    of the following:

      *

        SM1: Adding extended audio description in SMIL 1.0
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SM1> (SMIL)

      *

        SM2: Adding extended audio description in SMIL 2.0
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SM2> (SMIL)

      *

        FLASH26: Applying audio descriptions to Flash video
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH26>
        (Flash)

      *

        SL1: Accessing Alternate Audio Tracks in Silverlight Media
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL1>
        (Silverlight)

      *

        Using any player that supports audio and video


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.2.3

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Providing audio description in multiple languages in SMIL 1.0
    (future link)

  *

    Providing audio description in multiple languages in SMIL 2.0
    (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 1.2.3

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.2.3 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

alternative for time-based media

    document including correctly sequenced text descriptions of
    time-based visual and auditory information and providing a means for
    achieving the outcomes of any time-based interaction

    /Note: /A screenplay used to create the synchronized media content
    would meet this definition only if it was corrected to accurately
    represent the final synchronized media after editing.

audio description

    narration added to the soundtrack to describe important visual
    details that cannot be understood from the main soundtrack alone

    /Note 1: / Audio description of video
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef> provides
    information about actions, characters, scene changes, on-screen
    text, and other visual content.

    /Note 2: /In standard audio description, narration is added during
    existing pauses in dialogue. (See also extended audio description
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#extended-addef>.)

    /Note 3: /Where all of the video
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef>
    information is already provided in existing audio
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodef>, no
    additional audio description is necessary.

    /Note 4: /Also called "video description" and "descriptive narration."

media alternative for text

    media that presents no more information than is already presented in
    text (directly or via text alternatives)

    /Note: /A media alternative for text is provided for those who
    benefit from alternate representations of text. Media alternatives
    for text may be audio-only, video-only (including sign-language
    video), or audio-video.

prerecorded

    information that is not live
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#livedef>

synchronized media

    audio <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodef> or
    video <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef>
    synchronized with another format for presenting information and/or
    with time-based interactive components, unless the media is a media
    alternative for text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#multimedia-alt-textdef>
    that is clearly labeled as such

video

    the technology of moving or sequenced pictures or images

    /Note: /Video can be made up of animated or photographic images, or
    both.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Captions (Live)*:
    Understanding SC 1.2.4

    *1.2.4
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#media-equiv-real-time-captions>
    Captions (Live):* Captions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#captionsdef> are
    provided for all live
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#livedef> audio
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodef> content in
    synchronized media
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#synchronizedmediadef>.
    (Level AA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to enable people who are deaf or
hard of hearing to watch */real-time/* presentations. Captions provide
the part of the content available via the audio track. Captions not only
include dialogue, but also identify who is speaking and notate sound
effects and other significant audio.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.2.4

  *

    People who are deaf or have a hearing loss can access the auditory
    information in the synchronized media content through captions.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.2.4

  *

    *A Web cast*

    A news organization provides a live, captioned Web cast.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    See /Understanding Success Criterion 1.2.2 Captions (Prerecorded)
    <#media-equiv-captions>/.


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.2.4 - Captions (Live)

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G9: Creating captions for live synchronized media
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G9> *AND* G93:
    Providing open (always visible) captions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G93>

 2.

    G9: Creating captions for live synchronized media
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G9> *AND* G87:
    Providing closed captions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G87> using any
    readily available media format that has a video player that supports
    closed captioning

 3.

    G9: Creating captions for live synchronized media
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G9> *AND* G87:
    Providing closed captions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G87> using one
    of the following techniques:

      *

        SM11: Providing captions through synchronized text streams in
        SMIL 1.0
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SM11> (SMIL)

      *

        SM12: Providing captions through synchronized text streams in
        SMIL 2.0
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SM12> (SMIL)

/Note: /Captions may be generated using real-time text translation service.


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.2.4

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

(none currently documented)


        Common Failures for SC 1.2.4

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.2.4 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

audio

    the technology of sound reproduction

    /Note: /Audio can be created synthetically (including speech
    synthesis), recorded from real world sounds, or both.

captions

    synchronized visual and/or text alternative
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#text-altdef> for
    both speech and non-speech audio information needed to understand
    the media content

    /Note 1: /Captions are similar to dialogue-only subtitles except
    captions convey not only the content of spoken dialogue, but also
    equivalents for non-dialogue audio information needed to understand
    the program content, including sound effects, music, laughter,
    speaker identification and location.

    /Note 2: /Closed Captions are equivalents that can be turned on and
    off with some players.

    /Note 3: /Open Captions are any captions that cannot be turned off.
    For example, if the captions are visual equivalent images of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#images-of-textdef>
    embedded in video
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef>.

    /Note 4: /Captions should not obscure or obstruct relevant
    information in the video.

    /Note 5: /In some countries, captions are called subtitles.

    /Note 6: / Audio descriptions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodescdef> can
    be, but do not need to be, captioned since they are descriptions of
    information that is already presented visually.

live

    information captured from a real-world event and transmitted to the
    receiver with no more than a broadcast delay

    /Note 1: /A broadcast delay is a short (usually automated) delay,
    for example used in order to give the broadcaster time to queue or
    censor the audio (or video) feed, but not sufficient to allow
    significant editing.

    /Note 2: /If information is completely computer generated, it is not
    live.

synchronized media

    audio <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodef> or
    video <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef>
    synchronized with another format for presenting information and/or
    with time-based interactive components, unless the media is a media
    alternative for text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#multimedia-alt-textdef>
    that is clearly labeled as such

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Audio Description (Prerecorded)*:
    Understanding SC 1.2.5

    *1.2.5
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#media-equiv-audio-desc-only>
    Audio Description (Prerecorded):* Audio description
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodescdef> is
    provided for all prerecorded
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#prerecordeddef>
    video <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef>
    content in synchronized media
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#synchronizedmediadef>.
    (Level AA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to provide people who are blind
or visually impaired access to the visual information in a synchronized
media presentation. The audio description augments the audio portion of
the presentation with the information needed when the video portion is
not available. During existing pauses in dialogue, audio description
provides information about actions, characters, scene changes, and
on-screen text that are important and are not described or spoken in the
main sound track.

/Note 1: / For 1.2.3, 1.2.5, and 1.2.7, if all of the information in the
video track is already provided in the audio track, no audio description
is necessary.

/Note 2: / 1.2.3, 1.2.5, and 1.2.8 overlap somewhat with each other.
This is to give the author some choice at the minimum conformance level,
and to provide additional requirements at higher levels. At Level A in
Success Criterion 1.2.3, authors do have the choice of providing either
an audio description or a full text alternative. If they wish to conform
at Level AA, under Success Criterion 1.2.5 authors must provide an audio
description - a requirement already met if they chose that alternative
for 1.2.3, otherwise an additional requirement. At Level AAA under
Success Criterion 1.2.8 they must provide an extended text description.
This is an additional requirement if both 1.2.3 and 1.2.5 were met by
providing an audio description only. If 1.2.3 was met, however, by
providing a text description, and the 1.2.5 requirement for an audio
description was met, then 1.2.8 does not add new requirements.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.2.5

  *

    People who are blind or have low vision as well as those with
    cognitive limitations who have difficulty interpreting visually what
    is happening benefit from audio description of visual information.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.2.5

  *

    *A movie with audio description.*

    *Describer: *A title, "Teaching Evolution Case Studies. Bonnie
    Chen." A teacher shows photographs of birds with long, thin beaks.

    *Bonnie Chen: *"These photos were all taken at the Everglades."

    *Describer: *The teacher hands each student two flat, thin wooden
    sticks.

    *Bonnie Chen: *"Today you will pretend to be a species of wading
    bird that has a beak like this."

    *Describer: *The teacher holds two of the sticks to her mouth making
    the shape of a beak.

    Transcript of audio based on the first few minutes of "Teaching
    Evolution Case Studies, Bonnie Chen
    <http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/evolution/educators/teachstuds/tvideos.html>"
    (copyright WGBH and Clear Blue Sky Productions, Inc.)


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    NCAM Rich Media Accessibility, Accessible SMIL Templates
    <http://ncam.wgbh.org/invent_build/web_multimedia/accessible-digital-media-guide/guideline-h-multimedia#techH12>


  *

    Standard Techniques in Audio Description
    <http://joeclark.org/access/description/ad-principles.html>

  *

    Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language (SMIL) 1.0
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-smil/>

  *

    Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language (SMIL 2.0)
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/SMIL/>

  *

    Accessibility Features of SMIL <http://www.w3.org/TR/SMIL-access/>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.2.5 - Audio
      Description (Prerecorded)

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G78: Providing a second, user-selectable, audio track that includes
    audio descriptions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G78>

 2.

    G78: Providing a second, user-selectable, audio track that includes
    audio descriptions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G78> *AND*
    SL1: Accessing Alternate Audio Tracks in Silverlight Media
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL1>
    (Silverlight)

 3.

    G173: Providing a version of a movie with audio descriptions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G173> using
    one of the following:

      *

        SM6: Providing audio description in SMIL 1.0
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SM6> (SMIL)

      *

        SM7: Providing audio description in SMIL 2.0
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SM7> (SMIL)

      *

        FLASH26: Applying audio descriptions to Flash video
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH26>
        (Flash)

      *

        Using any player that supports audio and video

 4.

    G8: Providing a movie with extended audio descriptions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G8> using one
    of the following:

      *

        SM1: Adding extended audio description in SMIL 1.0
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SM1> (SMIL)

      *

        SM2: Adding extended audio description in SMIL 2.0
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SM2> (SMIL)

      *

        FLASH26: Applying audio descriptions to Flash video
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH26>
        (Flash)

      *

        Using any player that supports audio and video


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.2.5

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Providing audio description in multiple languages in SMIL 1.0
    (future link)

  *

    Providing audio description in multiple languages in SMIL 2.0
    (future link)

  *

    Providing audio description for live synchronized media (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 1.2.5

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.2.5 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

audio description

    narration added to the soundtrack to describe important visual
    details that cannot be understood from the main soundtrack alone

    /Note 1: / Audio description of video
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef> provides
    information about actions, characters, scene changes, on-screen
    text, and other visual content.

    /Note 2: /In standard audio description, narration is added during
    existing pauses in dialogue. (See also extended audio description
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#extended-addef>.)

    /Note 3: /Where all of the video
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef>
    information is already provided in existing audio
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodef>, no
    additional audio description is necessary.

    /Note 4: /Also called "video description" and "descriptive narration."

prerecorded

    information that is not live
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#livedef>

synchronized media

    audio <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodef> or
    video <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef>
    synchronized with another format for presenting information and/or
    with time-based interactive components, unless the media is a media
    alternative for text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#multimedia-alt-textdef>
    that is clearly labeled as such

video

    the technology of moving or sequenced pictures or images

    /Note: /Video can be made up of animated or photographic images, or
    both.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Sign Language (Prerecorded)*:
    Understanding SC 1.2.6

    *1.2.6
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#media-equiv-sign>
    Sign Language (Prerecorded):* Sign language interpretation
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#sign-languageinterpdef>
    is provided for all prerecorded
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#prerecordeddef>
    audio <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodef>
    content in synchronized media
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#synchronizedmediadef>.
    (Level AAA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to enable people who are deaf or
hard of hearing and who are fluent in a sign language to understand the
content of the audio track of synchronized media presentations. Written
text, such as that found in captions, is often a second language.
Because sign language provides the ability to provide intonation,
emotion and other audio information that is reflected in sign language
interpretation, but not in captions, sign language interpretation
provides richer and more equivalent access to synchronized media. People
who communicate extensively in sign language are also faster in sign
language and synchronized media is a time-based presentation.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.2.6

  *

    People whose human language is a sign language sometimes have
    limited reading ability. These individuals may not be able to read
    and comprehend the captions and thus require a sign language
    interpretation to gain access to the synchronized media content.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.2.6

  *

    *Example 1.* A corporation is making an important announcement to
    all of its employees. The meeting will be held in the main
    headquarters and streamed to the Web. A sign language interpreter is
    provided at the meeting location. The live video includes a full
    view of the sign language interpreter as well as the person presenting.

  *

    *Example 2.* The same announcement described in example 1 is also
    Webcast to remote employees. Since there is only one display
    available for this, the sign language interpreter is shown in the
    corner of the display.

  *

    *Example 3.* A university is providing an on-line version of a
    particular lecture by creating a synchronized media presentation of
    the professor delivering the lecture. The presentation includes
    video of the professor speaking and demonstrating a science
    experiment. A sign language interpretation of the lecture is created
    and presented on the Web with the synchronized media version.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language (SMIL) 1.0
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-smil/>

  *

    Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language (SMIL 2.0)
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/SMIL/>

  *

    Accessibility Features of SMIL <http://www.w3.org/TR/SMIL-access/>

  *

    NCAM Rich Media Accessibility, Accessible SMIL Templates
    <http://ncam.wgbh.org/invent_build/web_multimedia/accessible-digital-media-guide/guideline-h-multimedia#techH12>


  *

    National Institute on Deafness and other Communication Disorders
    <http://www.nidcd.nih.gov/health/hearing/asl.asp>: Information on
    American Sign Language

  *

    Techniques for filming sign language interpreters
    <http://www.sign-lang.uni-hamburg.de/signingbooks/sbrc/grid/d71/guide12.htm>


  *

    eSign Avatar Signing Plugin for Internet Explorer
    <http://www.sys-consulting.co.uk/downloads/esign/>.

  *

    Royal National Institute for Deaf People (RNID)
    <http://www.actiononhearingloss.org.uk/>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.2.6 - Sign
      Language (Prerecorded)

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G54: Including a sign language interpreter in the video stream
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G54>

 2.

    G81: Providing a synchronized video of the sign language interpreter
    that can be displayed in a different viewport or overlaid on the
    image by the player
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G81> using one
    of the following techniques

      *

        SM13: Providing sign language interpretation through
        synchronized video streams in SMIL 1.0
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SM13> (SMIL)

      *

        SM14: Providing sign language interpretation through
        synchronized video streams in SMIL 2.0
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SM14> (SMIL)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.2.6

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.


          Metadata Techniques

  *

    Using metadata to associate sign language alternatives of a video to
    enable choice of sign language (future link)

      o

        EXAMPLE: Providing, in metadata, URI(s) that point to several
        English sign language translations (ASL, SASL, BSL, Auslan, ISL,
        NZSL) of a Web page.


        Common Failures for SC 1.2.6

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.2.6 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

audio

    the technology of sound reproduction

    /Note: /Audio can be created synthetically (including speech
    synthesis), recorded from real world sounds, or both.

prerecorded

    information that is not live
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#livedef>

sign language interpretation

    translation of one language, generally a spoken language, into a
    sign language
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#sign-languagedef>

    /Note: / True sign languages are independent languages that are
    unrelated to the spoken language(s) of the same country or region.

synchronized media

    audio <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodef> or
    video <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef>
    synchronized with another format for presenting information and/or
    with time-based interactive components, unless the media is a media
    alternative for text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#multimedia-alt-textdef>
    that is clearly labeled as such

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Extended Audio Description (Prerecorded)*:
    Understanding SC 1.2.7

    *1.2.7
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#media-equiv-extended-ad>
    Extended Audio Description (Prerecorded):* Where pauses in
    foreground audio are insufficient to allow audio descriptions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodescdef> to
    convey the sense of the video, extended audio description
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#extended-addef> is
    provided for all prerecorded
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#prerecordeddef>
    video <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef>
    content in synchronized media
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#synchronizedmediadef>.
    (Level AAA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to provide people who are blind
or visually impaired access to a synchronized media presentation beyond
that which can be provided by standard audio description. This is done
by periodically freezing the synchronized media presentation and playing
additional audio description. The synchronized media presentation is
then resumed.

Because it disrupts viewing for those who do not need the additional
description, techniques that allow you to turn the feature on and off
are often provided. Alternately, versions with and without the
additional description can be provided.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.2.7

  *

    People who are blind, people with low vision who cannot see the
    screen, as well as those with cognitive limitations who have
    difficulty interpreting visually what is happening, often use audio
    description of the visual information. However, if there is too much
    dialogue the audio description is insufficient. Extended audio
    description can provide the additional information needed to
    understand the video.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.2.7

  *

    /Example 1. Video of a lecture./ A physics professor is giving a
    lecture. He makes freehand sketches on the whiteboard, speaking
    rapidly as he draws. As soon as he has finished discussing one
    problem, he erases the drawing and makes another sketch while
    continuing to speak and gesture with his other hand. The video is
    paused between problems, and extended audio description of the
    professor's drawings and gestures is provided; the video is then
    resumed.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language (SMIL) 1.0
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-smil/>

  *

    Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language (SMIL) 2.0
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/SMIL/>

  *

    Accessibility Features of SMIL <http://www.w3.org/TR/SMIL-access/>

  *

    NCAM Rich Media Accessibility, Accessible SMIL Templates
    <http://ncam.wgbh.org/invent_build/web_multimedia/accessible-digital-media-guide/guideline-h-multimedia#techH12>


  *

    Standard Techniques in Audio Description
    <http://joeclark.org/access/description/ad-principles.html>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.2.7 - Extended
      Audio Description (Prerecorded)

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G8: Providing a movie with extended audio descriptions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G8> using one
    of the following:

      *

        SM1: Adding extended audio description in SMIL 1.0
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SM1> (SMIL)

      *

        SM2: Adding extended audio description in SMIL 2.0
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SM2> (SMIL)

      *

        Using any player that supports audio and video


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.2.7

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Adding extended audio description in multiple languages in SMIL 1.0
    (future link)

  *

    Adding extended audio description in multiple languages in SMIL 2.0
    (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 1.2.7

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.2.7 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

audio description

    narration added to the soundtrack to describe important visual
    details that cannot be understood from the main soundtrack alone

    /Note 1: / Audio description of video
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef> provides
    information about actions, characters, scene changes, on-screen
    text, and other visual content.

    /Note 2: /In standard audio description, narration is added during
    existing pauses in dialogue. (See also extended audio description
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#extended-addef>.)

    /Note 3: /Where all of the video
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef>
    information is already provided in existing audio
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodef>, no
    additional audio description is necessary.

    /Note 4: /Also called "video description" and "descriptive narration."

extended audio description

    audio description that is added to an audiovisual presentation by
    pausing the video
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef> so that
    there is time to add additional description

    /Note: /This technique is only used when the sense of the video
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef> would be
    lost without the additional audio description
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodescdef> and
    the pauses between dialogue/narration are too short.

prerecorded

    information that is not live
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#livedef>

synchronized media

    audio <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodef> or
    video <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef>
    synchronized with another format for presenting information and/or
    with time-based interactive components, unless the media is a media
    alternative for text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#multimedia-alt-textdef>
    that is clearly labeled as such

video

    the technology of moving or sequenced pictures or images

    /Note: /Video can be made up of animated or photographic images, or
    both.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Media Alternative (Prerecorded)*:
    Understanding SC 1.2.8

    *1.2.8
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#media-equiv-text-doc> Media
    Alternative (Prerecorded):* An alternative for time-based media
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#alt-time-based-mediadef>
    is provided for all prerecorded
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#prerecordeddef>
    synchronized media
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#synchronizedmediadef> and
    for all prerecorded video-only
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#video-onlydef>
    media. (Level AAA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to make audio visual material
available to individuals whose vision is too poor to reliably read
captions <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#captionsdef>
and whose hearing is too poor to reliably hear dialogue and audio
description
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodescdef>. This is
done by providing an alternative for time-based media.

This approach involves providing all of the information in the
synchronized media (both visual and auditory) in text form. An
alternative for time-based media provides a running description of all
that is going on in the synchronized media content. The alternative for
time-based media reads something like a book. Unlike audio description,
the description of the video portion is not constrained to just the
pauses in the existing dialogue. Full descriptions are provided of all
visual information, including visual context, actions and expressions of
actors, and any other visual material. In addition, non-speech sounds
(laughter, off-screen voices, etc.) are described, and transcripts of
all dialogue are included. The sequence of descriptions and dialogue
transcripts is the same as the sequence in the synchronized media
itself. As a result, the alternative for time-based media can provide a
much more complete representation of the synchronized media content than
audio description alone.

If there is any interaction as part of the synchronized media
presentation (e.g., "press now to answer the question") then the
alternative for time-based media would provide hyperlinks or whatever is
needed to provide parallel functionality.

Individuals whose vision is too poor to reliably read captions and whose
hearing is too poor to reliably hear dialogue can access the alternative
for time-based media by using a refreshable braille display.

/Note 1: / For 1.2.3, 1.2.5, and 1.2.7, if all of the information in the
video track is already provided in the audio track, no audio description
is necessary.

/Note 2: / 1.2.3, 1.2.5, and 1.2.8 overlap somewhat with each other.
This is to give the author some choice at the minimum conformance level,
and to provide additional requirements at higher levels. At Level A in
Success Criterion 1.2.3, authors do have the choice of providing either
an audio description or a full text alternative. If they wish to conform
at Level AA, under Success Criterion 1.2.5 authors must provide an audio
description - a requirement already met if they chose that alternative
for 1.2.3, otherwise an additional requirement. At Level AAA under
Success Criterion 1.2.8 they must provide an extended text description.
This is an additional requirement if both 1.2.3 and 1.2.5 were met by
providing an audio description only. If 1.2.3 was met, however, by
providing a text description, and the 1.2.5 requirement for an audio
description was met, then 1.2.8 does not add new requirements.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.2.8

  *

    People who cannot see well or at all and who also cannot hear well
    or at all can get access to information in audio-visual presentations.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.2.8

  *

    *Example 1. alternative for time-based media for a training video*

    A community center purchases a Training video for use by its clients
    and puts it on the center's intranet. The video involves explaining
    use of a new technology and has a person talking and showing things
    at the same time. The community center provides a alternative for
    time-based media that all clients, including those who can neither
    see the demonstrations nor hear the explanations in the synchronized
    media, can use to better understand what is being presented.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    uiAccess list of transcription services
    <http://www.uiaccess.com/transcripts/transcript_services.html>

  *

    Transcripts on the Web: Getting people to your podcasts and videos
    <http://www.uiaccess.com/transcripts/transcripts_on_the_web.html>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.2.8 - Media
      Alternative (Prerecorded)

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

*Instructions:* Select the situation below that matches your content.
Each situation includes numbered techniques (or combinations of
techniques) that the Working Group deems to be sufficient for that
situation.


          Situation A: If the content is prerecorded synchronized media:

 1.

    G69: Providing an alternative for time based media
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G69> using one
    of the following techniques

      *

        G58: Placing a link to the alternative for time-based media
        immediately next to the non-text content
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G58>

      *

        SL17: Providing Static Alternative Content for Silverlight Media
        Playing in a MediaElement
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL17>
        (Silverlight)

 2.

    Linking to the alternative for time-based media using one of the
    following techniques

      *

        H53: Using the body of the object element
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H53> (HTML)


          Situation B: If the content is prerecorded video-only:

 1.

    G159: Providing an alternative for time-based media for video-only
    content <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G159>


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.2.8

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    H46: Using noembed with embed
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H46> (HTML)

  *

    Providing a corrected script (future link)

  *

    Adding detail to audio description (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 1.2.8

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.2.8 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F74: Failure of Success Criterion 1.2.2 and 1.2.8 due to not
    labeling a synchronized media alternative to text as an alternative
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F74>


      Key Terms

alternative for time-based media

    document including correctly sequenced text descriptions of
    time-based visual and auditory information and providing a means for
    achieving the outcomes of any time-based interaction

    /Note: /A screenplay used to create the synchronized media content
    would meet this definition only if it was corrected to accurately
    represent the final synchronized media after editing.

prerecorded

    information that is not live
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#livedef>

synchronized media

    audio <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodef> or
    video <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef>
    synchronized with another format for presenting information and/or
    with time-based interactive components, unless the media is a media
    alternative for text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#multimedia-alt-textdef>
    that is clearly labeled as such

video-only

    a time-based presentation that contains only video
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef> (no audio
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef> and no
    interaction)

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Audio-only (Live)*:
    Understanding SC 1.2.9

    *1.2.9
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#media-equiv-live-audio-only>
    Audio-only (Live):* An alternative for time-based media
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#alt-time-based-mediadef>
    that presents equivalent information for live
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#livedef> audio-only
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audio-onlydef>
    content is provided. (Level AAA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to make information conveyed by
live audio, such as video conferencing, live speeches and radio
Webcasts, accessible through the use of a text alternative. A live text
caption service will enable live audio to be accessible to people who
are deaf or hard of hearing, or who cannot otherwise hear the audio.
Such services use a trained human operator who listens in to what is
being said and uses a special keyboard to enter the text with only a
small delay. They are able to capture a live event with a high degree of
fidelity, and also to insert notes on any non spoken audio which is
essential to understanding the event. A transcript is sometimes a
possibility if the live audio is following a set script; but a live
caption service is preferred because it plays out at the same pace as
the audio itself, and can adapt to any deviations from the script that
might occur.

Using untrained operators, or providing a transcript which differs
markedly from what actually happens would not be considered meeting this
Success Criterion.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.2.9

  *

    A public relations firm uses Web based caption services to cover
    live events; the output from the service is incorporated in a sub
    frame of the Web page which includes the streaming audio control.

  *

    A live radio play of a fringe theatre group is being broadcast to
    the Web. As the actors stick largely to a set script, and the budget
    for the program is small, the producers provide a link (with the
    playwright's permission) to the script of the play.

  *

    A streaming audio server uses a media format which can also
    accommodate text and graphics, such as Flash or Silverlight. A
    stenographer is used to create live captions at an event, and these
    are mixed on the fly to produce live captions in the media stream
    which can be viewed by the media player.

  *

    A CEO is to give a press release by telephone to the media in
    response to a breaking news story, the audio is being recorded and
    streamed over the internet, but due to time constraints a Web
    captioning service cannot be set up in time. As the press release is
    a set statement which the CEO will be reading out, the company
    simultaneously provides the transcript of the release.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Captioning and Subtitling International
    <http://www.captioningandsubtitling.com/webcapt.htm>

  *

    WebAIM Real time captioning resource
    <http://webaim.org/techniques/captions/realtime>

  *

    uiAccess list of transcription services
    <http://www.uiaccess.com/transcripts/transcript_services.html>

  *

    Transcripts on the Web: Getting people to your podcasts and videos
    <http://www.uiaccess.com/transcripts/transcripts_on_the_web.html>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.2.9 - Audio-only
      (Live)

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G151: Providing a link to a text transcript of a prepared statement
    or script if the script is followed
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G151>

 2.

    G150: Providing text based alternatives for live audio-only content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G150>

 3.

    G157: Incorporating a live audio captioning service into a Web page
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G157>


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.2.9

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Using metadata to associate text transcriptions with audio-only
    content (future link)

    /Example: /Providing, in metadata, URI(s) that point to several text
    transcripts (English, French, Dutch) of an audio file.


        Common Failures for SC 1.2.9

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.2.9 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

alternative for time-based media

    document including correctly sequenced text descriptions of
    time-based visual and auditory information and providing a means for
    achieving the outcomes of any time-based interaction

    /Note: /A screenplay used to create the synchronized media content
    would meet this definition only if it was corrected to accurately
    represent the final synchronized media after editing.

audio-only

    a time-based presentation that contains only audio
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodef> (no video
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef> and no
    interaction)

live

    information captured from a real-world event and transmitted to the
    receiver with no more than a broadcast delay

    /Note 1: /A broadcast delay is a short (usually automated) delay,
    for example used in order to give the broadcaster time to queue or
    censor the audio (or video) feed, but not sufficient to allow
    significant editing.

    /Note 2: /If information is completely computer generated, it is not
    live.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Adaptable*:
    Understanding Guideline 1.3

    *Guideline 1.3: *Create content that can be presented in different
    ways (for example simpler layout) without losing information or
    structure.


      Intent of Guideline 1.3

The purpose of this guideline is to ensure that all information is
available in a form that can be perceived by all users, for example,
spoken aloud, or presented in a simpler visual layout. If all of the
information is available in a form that can be determined by software,
then it can be presented to users in different ways (visually, audibly,
tactilely etc.). If information is embedded in a particular presentation
in such a way that the structure and information cannot be
programmatically determined by the assistive technology, then it cannot
be rendered in other formats as needed by the user.

The Success Criteria under this guideline all seek to ensure that
different types of information that are often encoded in presentation
are also available so that they can be presented in other modalities.

  *

    *structure:* the way the parts of a Web page are organized in
    relation to each other; and the way a collection of Web pages is
    organized

  *

    *presentation:* rendering of the content in a form that can be
    perceived by users


    *Info and Relationships*:
    Understanding SC 1.3.1

    *1.3.1
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#content-structure-separation-programmatic>
    Info and Relationships:* Information, structure
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#structuredef>, and
    relationships
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#relationshipsdef>
    conveyed through presentation
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#presentationdef> can
    be programmatically determined
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#programmaticallydetermineddef>
    or are available in text. (Level A)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that information and
relationships that are implied by visual or auditory formatting are
preserved when the presentation format changes. For example, the
presentation format changes when the content is read by a screen reader
or when a user style sheet is substituted for the style sheet provided
by the author.

Sighted users perceive structure through various visual cues — headings
are often in a larger, bold font separated from paragraphs by blank
lines; list items are preceded by a bullet and perhaps indented;
paragraphs are separated by a blank line; items that share a common
characteristic are organized into tabular rows and columns; form fields
may be positioned as groups that share text labels; a different
background color may be used to indicate that several items are related
to each other; words that have special status are indicated by changing
the font family and /or bolding, italicizing, or underlining them and so
on.

Auditory cues may be used as well. For example, a chime might indicate
the beginning of a new section; a change in voice pitch or speech rate
may be used to emphasize important information or to indicate quoted
text; etc.

When such relationships are perceivable to one set of users, those
relationships can be made to be perceivable to all. One method of
determining whether or not information has been properly provided to all
users is to access the information serially in different modalities.

If links to glossary items are implemented using anchor elements (or the
proper link element for the technology in use) and identified using a
different font face, a screen reader user will hear that the item is a
link when the glossary term is encountered even though they may not
receive information about the change in font face. An on-line catalog
may indicate prices using a larger font colored red. A screen reader or
person who cannot perceive red, still has the information about the
price as long as it is preceded by the currency symbol.

Some technologies do not provide a means to programmatically determine
some types of information and relationships. In that case then there
should be a text description of the information and relationships. For
instance, "all required fields are marked with an asterisk (*)". The
text description should be near the information it is describing (when
the page is linearized), such as in the parent element or in the
adjacent element.

There may also be cases where it may be a judgment call about what
information should appear in text and what would need to be directly
associated. However, wherever possible it is necessary for the
information to be programmatically determined rather than providing a
text description before encountering the table.

/Note: /It is not required that color values be programmatically
determined. The information conveyed by color cannot be adequately
presented simply by exposing the value. Therefore, Success Criterion
1.4.1
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#visual-audio-contrast-without-color>
addresses the specific case of color, rather than Success Criterion 1.3.1.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.3.1

  *

    This Success Criterion helps people with different disabilities by
    allowing user agents to adapt content according to the needs of
    individual users.

  *

    Users who are blind (using a screen reader) benefit when information
    conveyed through color is also available in text (including text
    alternatives for images that use color to convey information).

  *

    Users who are deaf-blind using braille (text) refreshable displays
    may be unable to access color-dependent information.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.3.1

  *

    *A form with required fields *

    A form contains several required fields. The labels for the required
    fields are displayed in red. In addition, at the end of each label
    is an asterisk character, *. The instructions for completing the
    form indicate that "all required fields are displayed in red and
    marked with an asterisk *", followed by an example.

  *

    *A form that uses color and text to indicate required fields*

    A form contains both required and optional fields. Instructions at
    the top of the form explain that required fields are labeled with
    red text and also with an icon whose text alternative says,
    "Required." Both the red text and the icon are programmatically
    associated with the appropriate form fields so that assistive
    technology users can determine the required fields.

  *

    *A bus schedule table where the headers for each cell can be
    programmatically determined*

    A bus schedule consists of a table with the bus stops listed
    vertically in the first column and the different buses listed
    horizontally across the first row. Each cell contains the time when
    the bus will be at that bus stop. The bus stop and bus cells are
    identified as headers for their corresponding row or column so that
    assistive technology can programmatically determine which bus and
    which bus stop are associated with the time in each cell.

  *

    *A form where the labels for the checkboxes can be programmatically
    determined*

    In a form, the labels for each checkbox can be programmatically
    determined by assistive technology.

  *

    *A text document*

    A simple text document is formatted with double blank lines before
    titles, asterisks to indicate list items and other standard
    formatting conventions so that its structure can be programmatically
    determined.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Quick tips for accessible headings
    <http://webarchive.nationalarchives.gov.uk/20100418065544/http://www.rnib.org.uk/wacblog/headings/quick-tips-for-accessible-headings/>



      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.3.1 - Info and
      Relationships

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

*Instructions:* Select the situation below that matches your content.
Each situation includes numbered techniques (or combinations of
techniques) that the Working Group deems to be sufficient for that
situation.


          Situation A: The technology provides semantic structure to
          make information and relationships conveyed through
          presentation programmatically determinable:

 1.

    G115: Using semantic elements to mark up structure
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G115> *AND*
    H49: Using semantic markup to mark emphasized or special text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H49> (HTML)

 2.

    G117: Using text to convey information that is conveyed by
    variations in presentation of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G117>

 3.

    G140: Separating information and structure from presentation to
    enable different presentations
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G140>

 4.

    Making information and relationships conveyed through presentation
    programmatically determinable using the following techniques:

      *

        G138: Using semantic markup whenever color cues are used
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G138>

      *

        H51: Using table markup to present tabular information
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H51> (HTML)

      *

        PDF6: Using table elements for table markup in PDF Documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/PDF6> (PDF)

      *

        PDF20: Using Adobe Acrobat Pro's Table Editor to repair
        mistagged tables
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/PDF20> (PDF)

      *

        H39: Using caption elements to associate data table captions
        with data tables
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H39> (HTML)

      *

        FLASH31: Specifying caption text for a DataGrid
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH31>
        (Flash)

      *

        H73: Using the summary attribute of the table element to give an
        overview of data tables
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H73> (HTML)

      *

        FLASH23: Adding summary information to a DataGrid
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH23>
        (Flash)

      *

        H63: Using the scope attribute to associate header cells and
        data cells in data tables
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H63> (HTML)

      *

        H43: Using id and headers attributes to associate data cells
        with header cells in data tables
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H43> (HTML)

      *

        FLASH21: Using the DataGrid component to associate column
        headers with cells
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH21>
        (Flash)

      *

        H44: Using label elements to associate text labels with form
        controls
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H44> (HTML)

      *

        H65: Using the title attribute to identify form controls when
        the label element cannot be used
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H65> (HTML)

      *

        PDF10: Providing labels for interactive form controls in PDF
        documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/PDF10> (PDF)

      *

        PDF12: Providing name, role, value information for form fields
        in PDF documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/PDF12> (PDF)

      *

        FLASH32: Using auto labeling to associate text labels with form
        controls
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH32>
        (Flash)

      *

        FLASH29: Setting the label property for form components
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH29>
        (Flash)

      *

        FLASH25: Labeling a form control by setting its accessible name
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH25>
        (Flash)

      *

        H71: Providing a description for groups of form controls using
        fieldset and legend elements
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H71> (HTML)

      *

        SL20: Relying on Silverlight AutomationPeer Behavior to Set
        AutomationProperties.Name
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL20>
        (Silverlight)

      *

        SL26: Using LabeledBy to Associate Labels and Targets in
        Silverlight
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL26>
        (Silverlight)

      *

        H85: Using OPTGROUP to group OPTION elements inside a SELECT
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H85> (HTML)

      *

        H48: Using ol, ul and dl for lists or groups of links
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H48> (HTML)

      *

        H42: Using h1-h6 to identify headings
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H42> (HTML)

      *

        PDF9: Providing headings by marking content with heading tags in
        PDF documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/PDF9> (PDF)

      *

        SCR21: Using functions of the Document Object Model (DOM) to add
        content to a page
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SCR21>
        (Scripting)

      *

        PDF11: Providing links and link text using the /Link structure
        element in PDF documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/PDF11> (PDF)

      *

        PDF17: Specifying consistent page numbering for PDF documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/PDF17> (PDF)

      *

        PDF21: Using List tags for lists in PDF documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/PDF21> (PDF)


          Situation B: The technology in use does NOT provide the
          semantic structure to make the information and relationships
          conveyed through presentation programmatically determinable:

 1.

    G117: Using text to convey information that is conveyed by
    variations in presentation of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G117>

 2.

    FLASH8: Adding a group name to the accessible name of a form control
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH8> (Flash)

 3.

    Making information and relationships conveyed through presentation
    programmatically determinable or available in text using the
    following techniques:

      *

        T1: Using standard text formatting conventions for paragraphs
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/T1> (Text)

      *

        T2: Using standard text formatting conventions for lists
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/T2> (Text)

      *

        T3: Using standard text formatting conventions for headings
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/T3> (Text)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.3.1

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    C22: Using CSS to control visual presentation of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C22> (CSS)

  *

    Using CSS rather than tables for page layout (future link)

  *

    G162: Positioning labels to maximize predictability of relationships
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G162>

  *

    ARIA1: Using the aria-describedby property to provide a descriptive
    label for input controls
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/ARIA1> (ARIA)

  *

    ARIA2: Identifying required fields with the aria-required property
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/ARIA2> (ARIA)

  *

    Providing labels for all form controls that do not have implicit
    labels (future link)

  *

    G141: Organizing a page using headings
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G141>


        Common Failures for SC 1.3.1

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.3.1 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F2: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.1 due to using changes in text
    presentation to convey information without using the appropriate
    markup or text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F2>

  *

    F17: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.1 and 4.1.1 due to
    insufficient information in DOM to determine one-to-one
    relationships (e.g., between labels with same id) in HTML
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F17>

  *

    F33: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.1 and 1.3.2 due to using white
    space characters to create multiple columns in plain text content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F33>

  *

    F34: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.1 and 1.3.2 due to using white
    space characters to format tables in plain text content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F34>

  *

    F42: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.1 and 2.1.1 due to using
    scripting events to emulate links in a way that is not
    programmatically determinable
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F42>

  *

    F43: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.1 due to using structural
    markup in a way that does not represent relationships in the content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F43>

  *

    F46: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.1 due to using th elements,
    caption elements, or non-empty summary attributes in layout tables
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F46>

  *

    F48: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.1 due to using the pre element
    to markup tabular information
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F48>

  *

    F62: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.1 and 4.1.1 due to
    insufficient information in DOM to determine specific relationships
    in XML <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F62>

  *

    F68: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.1 and 4.1.2 due to the
    association of label and user interface controls not being
    programmatically determinable
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F68>

  *

    F87: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.1 due to inserting
    non-decorative content by using :before and :after pseudo-elements
    and the 'content' property in CSS
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F87>


      Key Terms

presentation

    rendering of the content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#contentdef> in a
    form to be perceived by users

programmatically determined (programmatically determinable)

    determined by software from author-supplied data provided in a way
    that different user agents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>,
    including assistive technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#atdef>, can extract
    and present this information to users in different modalities

    /Example 1: /Determined in a markup language from elements and
    attributes that are accessed directly by commonly available
    assistive technology.

    /Example 2: /Determined from technology-specific data structures in
    a non-markup language and exposed to assistive technology via an
    accessibility API that is supported by commonly available assistive
    technology.

relationships

    meaningful associations between distinct pieces of content

structure

     1.

        The way the parts of a Web page
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> are
        organized in relation to each other; and

     2.

        The way a collection of Web pages
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> is
        organized

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Meaningful Sequence*:
    Understanding SC 1.3.2

    *1.3.2
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#content-structure-separation-sequence>
    Meaningful Sequence:* When the sequence in which content is
    presented affects its meaning, a correct reading sequence
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#correct-reading-sequencedef>
    can be programmatically determined
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#programmaticallydetermineddef>.
    (Level A)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to enable a user agent to
provide an alternative presentation of content while preserving the
reading order needed to understand the meaning. It is important that it
be possible to programmatically determine at least one sequence of the
content that makes sense. Content that does not meet this Success
Criterion may confuse or disorient users when assistive technology reads
the content in the wrong order, or when alternate style sheets or other
formatting changes are applied.

A sequence is /meaningful/ if the order of content in the sequence
cannot be changed without affecting its meaning. For example, if a page
contains two independent articles, the relative order of the articles
may not affect their meaning, as long as they are not interleaved. In
such a situation, the articles themselves may have meaningful sequence,
but the container that contains the articles may not have a meaningful
sequence.

The semantics of some elements define whether or not their content is a
meaningful sequence. For instance, in HTML, text is always a meaningful
sequence. Tables and ordered lists are meaningful sequences, but
unordered lists are not.

The order of content in a sequence is not always meaningful. For
example, the relative order of the main section of a Web page and a
navigation section does not affect their meaning. They could occur in
either order in the programmatically determined reading sequence. As
another example, a magazine article contains several callout sidebars.
The order of the article and the sidebars does not affect their meaning.
In these cases there are a number of different reading orders for a Web
page that can satisfy the Success Criterion.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.3.2

  *

    This Success Criterion may help people who rely on assistive
    technologies that read content aloud. The meaning evident in the
    sequencing of the information in the default presentation will be
    the same when the content is presented in spoken form.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.3.2

  *

    *Example 1:* In a multi-column document, the linear presentation of
    the content flows from the top of a column to the bottom of the
    column, then to the top of the next column.

  *

    *Example 2:* CSS is used to position a navigation bar, the main
    story on a page, and a side story. The visual presentation of the
    sections does not match the programmatically determined order, but
    the meaning of the page does not depend on the order of the sections.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.3.2 - Meaningful
      Sequence

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G57: Ordering the content in a meaningful sequence
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G57> for all
    the content in the Web page

 2.

    Marking sequences in the content as meaningful using one of the
    following techniques *AND* G57: Ordering the content in a meaningful
    sequence <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G57>
    for those sequences

      *

        H34: Using a Unicode right-to-left mark (RLM) or left-to-right
        mark (LRM) to mix text direction inline
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H34> (HTML)

      *

        H56: Using the dir attribute on an inline element to resolve
        problems with nested directional runs
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H56> (HTML)

      *

        C6: Positioning content based on structural markup
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C6> (CSS)

      *

        C8: Using CSS letter-spacing to control spacing within a word
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C8> (CSS)

 3.

    C27: Making the DOM order match the visual order
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C27> (CSS)

 4.

    FLASH15: Using the tabIndex property to specify a logical reading
    order and a logical tab order in Flash
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH15> (Flash)

 5.

    PDF3: Ensuring correct tab and reading order in PDF documents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/PDF3> (PDF)

 6.

    SL34: Using the Silverlight Default Tab Sequence and Altering Tab
    Sequences With Properties
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL34>
    (Silverlight)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.3.2

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Using left-justified text for languages that are written left to
    right and right-justified text for languages that are written
    right-to-left (future link)

  *

    Providing a link to linearized rendering (future link)

  *

    Providing a style switcher between style sheets that affect
    presentation order (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 1.3.2

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.3.2 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F34: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.1 and 1.3.2 due to using white
    space characters to format tables in plain text content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F34>

  *

    F33: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.1 and 1.3.2 due to using white
    space characters to create multiple columns in plain text content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F33>

  *

    F32: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.2 due to using white space
    characters to control spacing within a word
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F32>

  *

    F49: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.2 due to using an HTML layout
    table that does not make sense when linearized
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F49>

  *

    F1: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.2 due to changing the meaning
    of content by positioning information with CSS
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F1>


      Key Terms

correct reading sequence

    any sequence where words and paragraphs are presented in an order
    that does not change the meaning of the content

programmatically determined (programmatically determinable)

    determined by software from author-supplied data provided in a way
    that different user agents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>,
    including assistive technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#atdef>, can extract
    and present this information to users in different modalities

    /Example 1: /Determined in a markup language from elements and
    attributes that are accessed directly by commonly available
    assistive technology.

    /Example 2: /Determined from technology-specific data structures in
    a non-markup language and exposed to assistive technology via an
    accessibility API that is supported by commonly available assistive
    technology.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Sensory Characteristics*:
    Understanding SC 1.3.3

    *1.3.3
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#content-structure-separation-understanding>
    Sensory Characteristics:* Instructions provided for understanding
    and operating content do not rely solely on sensory characteristics
    of components such as shape, size, visual location, orientation, or
    sound. (Level A)

    /Note: /For requirements related to color, refer to /Guideline 1.4
    <#visual-audio-contrast>/.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that all users can
access instructions for using the content, even when they cannot
perceive shape or size or use information about spatial location or
orientation. Some content relies on knowledge of the shape or position
of objects that are not available from the structure of the content (for
example, "round button" or "button to the right"). Some users with
disabilities are not able to perceive shape or position due to the
nature of the assistive technologies they use. This Success Criterion
requires that additional information be provided to clarify anything
that is dependent on this kind of information.

Providing information using shape and/or location, however, is an
effective method for many users including those with cognitive
limitations. This provision should not discourage those types of cues as
long as the information is also provided in other ways.

In some languages, it is commonly understood that "above" refers to the
content previous to that point in the content and "below" refers to the
content after that point. In such languages, if the content being
referenced is in the appropriate place in the reading order and the
references are unambiguous, statements such as "choose one of the links
below" or "all of the above" would conform to this Success Criterion.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.3.3

  *

    People who are blind and people who have low vision may not be able
    to understand information if it is conveyed by shape and/or
    location. Providing additional information other than shape and/or
    location will allow them to understand the information conveyed by
    shape and/or alone.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.3.3

  *

    *Example 1: A schedule of competitive events uses color and shape to
    distinguish the time of each event *

    A table presents a list of times across the top row and a list of
    events in the first vertical column. The cell corresponding to the
    time of a particular event has a specific background color and
    diamond shaped glyph so it can be identified by color and shape.

  *

    *Example 2: An on-line multi-page survey *

    An on-line multi-page survey uses a link implemented as a green
    arrow icon placed in the lower right hand corner of the content to
    move from one survey page to the next. The arrow is clearly labeled
    with "Next" and the instructions state, "To move to the next section
    of the survey, select the green arrow icon labeled 'Next' in the
    lower right corner below the last survey question." This example
    uses both positioning, color and labeling to help identify the icon.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.3.3 - Sensory
      Characteristics

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G96: Providing textual identification of items that otherwise rely
    only on sensory information to be understood
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G96>


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.3.3

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Using an image with a text alternative for graphical symbols instead
    of a Unicode font glyph with the desired graphical appearance but
    different meaning (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 1.3.3

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.3.3 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F14: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.3 due to identifying content
    only by its shape or location
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F14>

  *

    F26: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.3 due to using a graphical
    symbol alone to convey information
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F26>

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Distinguishable*:
    Understanding Guideline 1.4

    *Guideline 1.4: * Make it easier for users to see and hear content
    including separating foreground from background.


      Intent of Guideline 1.4

While some guidelines are focused on making information available in a
form that can be presented in alternate formats, this guideline is
concerned with making the default presentation as easy to perceive as
possible to people with disabilities. The primary focus is on making it
easier for users to separate foreground information from the background.
For visual presentations this involves making sure that information
presented on top of a background contrasts sufficiently with the
background. For audio presentations this involves making sure that
foreground sounds are sufficiently louder than the background sounds.
Individuals with visual and hearing disabilities have much greater
difficulty separating foreground and background information.


      Advisory Techniques for Guideline 1.4 (not success criteria specific)

Specific techniques for meeting each Success Criterion for this
guideline are listed in the understanding sections for each Success
Criterion (listed below). If there are techniques, however, for
addressing this guideline that do not fall under any of the success
criteria, they are listed here. These techniques are not required or
sufficient for meeting any success criteria, but can make certain types
of Web content more accessible to more people.

  *

    Using readable fonts (future link)

  *

    Making sure any text in images of text is at least 14 points and has
    good contrast (future link)

  *

    Providing a highly visible highlighting mechanism for links or
    controls when they receive keyboard focus (future link)


    *Use of Color*:
    Understanding SC 1.4.1

    *1.4.1
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#visual-audio-contrast-without-color>
    Use of Color:* Color is not used as the only visual means of
    conveying information, indicating an action, prompting a response,
    or distinguishing a visual element. (Level A)

    /Note: /This success criterion addresses color perception
    specifically. Other forms of perception are covered in /Guideline
    1.3 <#content-structure-separation>/ including programmatic access
    to color and other visual presentation coding.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that all users can
access information that is conveyed by color differences, that is, by
the use of color where each color has a meaning assigned to it. If the
information is conveyed through color differences in an image (or other
non-text format), the color may not be seen by users with color
deficiencies. In this case, providing the information conveyed with
color through another visual means ensures users who cannot see color
can still perceive the information.

Color is an important asset in design of Web content, enhancing its
aesthetic appeal, its usability, and its accessibility. However, some
users have difficulty perceiving color. People with partial sight often
experience limited color vision, and many older users do not see color
well. In addition, people using text-only, limited-color or monochrome
displays and browsers will be unable to access information that is
presented only in color.

Examples of information conveyed by color differences: “required fields
are red", “error is shown in red", and “Mary's sales are in red, Tom's
are in blue". Examples of indications of an action include: using color
to indicate that a link will open in a new window or that a database
entry has been updated successfully. An example of prompting a response
would be: using highlighting on form fields to indicate that a required
field had been left blank.

/Note: /This should not in any way discourage the use of color on a
page, or even color coding if it is redundant with other visual indication.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.4.1

  *

    Users with partial sight often experience limited color vision.

  *

    Some older users may not be able to see color well.

  *

    Users who have color-blindness benefit when information conveyed by
    color is available in other visual ways.

  *

    People using text-only, limited color, or monochrome displays may be
    unable to access color-dependent information.

  *

    Users who have problems distinguishing between colors can look or
    listen for text cues.

  *

    People using Braille displays or other tactile interfaces can detect
    text cues by touch.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.4.1

  *

    *A form that uses color and text to indicate required fields*

    A form contains both required and optional fields. Instructions at
    the top of the form explain that required fields are labeled with
    red text and also with an icon whose text alternative says,
    "Required." Both the red text and the icon are programmatically
    associated with the appropriate form fields so that assistive
    technology users can determine the required fields.

  *

    *An examination.*

    Students view an SVG image of a chemical compound and identify the
    chemical elements present based on the colors and numbers used in
    the diagram. The text alternatives associated with each element name
    the color of the element and indicate the element's position in the
    diagram. Students who cannot perceive color have the same
    information about the compound as their classmates. (This technique
    also satisfies Guideline 1.1
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#text-equiv-all>
    Level A.)

  *

    *Disabled Form elements.*

    Form elements which are disabled via markup or scripting, are greyed
    out and made inactive by the user agent. When in the disabled state
    these elements do not receive focus. Assistive technologies can
    programmatically determine the state of disabled elements and will
    provide this information to the user as the elements are encountered
    on the page. The change in color and loss of focus provides
    redundant, visual information about the state of the control.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Lighthouse International: Effective Color Contrast
    <http://www.lighthouse.org/accessibility/design/accessible-print-design/effective-color-contrast>


  *

    Vischeck <http://www.vischeck.com/>

  *

    Internetworking: Designing for the Color-Challenged: A Challenge
    <http://www.internettg.org/newsletter/mar99/accessibility_color_challenged.html>


  *

    AWARE Color Laboratory
    <http://colorlab.wickline.org/colorblind/colorlab/>

  *

    Colorblind Web Page Filter <http://colorfilter.wickline.org/>

  *

    Firelily Designs: Color Vision, Color Deficiency
    <http://www.firelily.com/opinions/color.html>

  *

    Wikipedia: Color Blindness
    <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Color_blindness>

  *

    Microsoft: Can Color-Blind Users See Your Site?
    <http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/bb263953.aspx>

  *

    BT Inclusive Communication: Choosing safe colours
    <http://www.btplc.com/inclusion/Gettingonline/Accessible/Adviceforwebdevelopers/colours.htm>


  *

    Causes of Color: How do people inherit colorblindness? How often?:
    Genetics <http://www.webexhibits.org/causesofcolor/2C.html>

  *

    How to make figures and presentations that are friendly to
    Colorblind people <http://jfly.iam.u-tokyo.ac.jp/color/>

  *

    The Color Tutor application <http://www.tomjewett.com/colors/tutor.html>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.4.1 - Use of Color

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

*Instructions:* Select the situation below that matches your content.
Each situation includes numbered techniques (or combinations of
techniques) that the Working Group deems to be sufficient for that
situation.


          Situation A: If the color of particular words, backgrounds, or
          other content is used to indicate information:

 1.

    G14: Ensuring that information conveyed by color differences is also
    available in text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G14>

 2.

    H92: Including a text cue for colored form control labels
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H92> (HTML)

 3.

    G182: Ensuring that additional visual cues are available when text
    color differences are used to convey information
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G182>

 4.

    G183: Using a contrast ratio of 3:1 with surrounding text and
    providing additional visual cues on focus for links or controls
    where color alone is used to identify them
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G183>


          Situation B: If color is used within an image to convey
          information:

 1.

    G111: Using color and pattern
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G111>

 2.

    G14: Ensuring that information conveyed by color differences is also
    available in text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G14>


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.4.1

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Conveying information redundantly using color (future link)

  *

    C15: Using CSS to change the presentation of a user interface
    component when it receives focus
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C15> (CSS)


        Common Failures for SC 1.4.1

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.4.1 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F13: Failure of Success Criterion 1.1.1 and 1.4.1 due to having a
    text alternative that does not include information that is conveyed
    by color differences in the image
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F13>

  *

    F73: Failure of Success Criterion 1.4.1 due to creating links that
    are not visually evident without color vision
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F73>

  *

    F81: Failure of Success Criterion 1.4.1 due to identifying required
    or error fields using color differences only
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F81>

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Audio Control*:
    Understanding SC 1.4.2

    *1.4.2
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#visual-audio-contrast-dis-audio>
    Audio Control:* If any audio on a Web page plays automatically for
    more than 3 seconds, either a mechanism
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#mechanismdef> is
    available to pause or stop the audio, or a mechanism is available to
    control audio volume independently from the overall system volume
    level. (Level A)

    /Note: /Since any content that does not meet this success criterion
    can interfere with a user's ability to use the whole page, all
    content on the Web page (whether or not it is used to meet other
    success criteria) must meet this success criterion. See /Conformance
    Requirement 5: Non-Interference
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#cc5>/.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

Individuals who use screen reading software can find it hard to hear the
speech output if there is other audio playing at the same time. This
difficulty is exacerbated when the screen reader's speech output is
software based (as most are today) and is controlled via the same volume
control as the sound. Therefore, it is important that the user be able
to turn off the background sound. Note: Having control of the volume
includes being able to reduce its volume to zero.

/Note: /Playing audio automatically when landing on a page may affect a
screen reader user's ability to find the mechanism to stop it because
they navigate by listening and automatically started sounds might
interfere with that navigation. Therefore, we discourage the practice of
automatically starting sounds (especially if they last more than 3
seconds), and encourage that the sound be /started/ by an action
initiated by the user after they reach the page, rather than requiring
that the sound be /stopped/ by an action of the user after they land on
the page.

See also /Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.7 Low or No Background
Audio <#visual-audio-contrast-noaudio>/.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.4.2

  *

    Individuals who use screen reading technologies can hear the screen
    reader without other sounds playing. This is especially important
    for those who are hard of hearing and for those whose screen readers
    use the system volume (so they cannot turn sound down and screen
    reader up).

  *

    This Success Criterion also benefits people who have difficulty
    focusing on visual content (including text) when audio is playing.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.4.2

  *

    An audio file begins playing automatically when a page is opened.
    However, the audio can be stopped by the user by selecting a
    "silent" link at the top of the page.

  *

    A Flash splash page with sound that plays and then stops in less
    than 3 seconds.

  *

    A Flash splash page with sound that plays automatically includes a
    control at the top that allows users to turn the sound off.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.4.2 - Audio Control

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G60: Playing a sound that turns off automatically within three
    seconds <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G60>

 2.

    G170: Providing a control near the beginning of the Web page that
    turns off sounds that play automatically
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G170>

 3.

    G171: Playing sounds only on user request
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G171>

 4.

    SL24: Using AutoPlay to Keep Silverlight Media from Playing
    Automatically
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL24>
    (Silverlight)

 5.

    FLASH18: Providing a control to turn off sounds that play
    automatically in Flash
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH18> (Flash)

 6.

    FLASH34: Turning off sounds that play automatically when an
    assistive technology is detected
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH34> (Flash)

 7.

    SL3: Controlling Silverlight MediaElement Audio Volume
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL3>
    (Silverlight)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.4.2

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Providing a site-wide preference to turn off audio in addition to
    providing a control near the top of the Web page that turns off
    sounds that play automatically (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 1.4.2

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.4.2 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F23: Failure of 1.4.2 due to playing a sound longer than 3 seconds
    where there is no mechanism to turn it off
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F23>


      Key Terms

mechanism

    process <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#processdef>
    or technique for achieving a result

    /Note 1: /The mechanism may be explicitly provided in the content,
    or may be relied upon
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#reliedupondef> to be
    provided by either the platform or by user agents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>,
    including assistive technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#atdef>.

    /Note 2: /The mechanism needs to meet all success criteria for the
    conformance level claimed.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Contrast (Minimum)*:
    Understanding SC 1.4.3

    *1.4.3
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#visual-audio-contrast-contrast>
    Contrast (Minimum):* The visual presentation of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#textdef> and images
    of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#images-of-textdef>
    has a contrast ratio
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#contrast-ratiodef>
    of at least 4.5:1, except for the following: (Level AA)

      *

        *Large Text: * Large-scale
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#larger-scaledef>
        text and images of large-scale text have a contrast ratio of at
        least 3:1;

      *

        *Incidental: * Text or images of text that are part of an
        inactive user interface component
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#user-interface-componentdef>,
        that are pure decoration
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#puredecdef>,
        that are not visible to anyone, or that are part of a picture
        that contains significant other visual content, have no contrast
        requirement.

      *

        *Logotypes: * Text that is part of a logo or brand name has no
        minimum contrast requirement.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to provide enough contrast
between text and its background so that it can be read by people with
moderately low vision (who do not use contrast-enhancing assistive
technology). For people without color deficiencies, hue and saturation
have minimal or no effect on legibility as assessed by reading
performance (Knoblauch et al., 1991). Color deficiencies can affect
luminance contrast somewhat. Therefore, in the recommendation, the
contrast is calculated in such a way that color is not a key factor so
that people who have a color vision deficit will also have adequate
contrast between the text and the background.

Text that is decorative and conveys no information is excluded. For
example, if random words are used to create a background and the words
could be rearranged or substituted without changing meaning, then it
would be decorative and would not need to meet this criterion.

Text that is larger and has wider character strokes is easier to read at
lower contrast. The contrast requirement for larger text is therefore
lower. This allows authors to use a wider range of color choices for
large text, which is helpful for design of pages, particularly titles.
18 point text or 14 point bold text is judged to be large enough to
require a lower contrast ratio. (See The American Printing House for the
Blind Guidelines for Large Printing and The Library of Congress
Guidelines for Large Print under Resources
<#visual-audio-contrast-contrast-resources-head>). "18 point" and "bold"
can both have different meanings in different fonts but, except for very
thin or unusual fonts, they should be sufficient. Since there are so
many different fonts, the general measures are used and a note regarding
fancy or thin fonts is included.

/Note: /Because different image editing applications default to
different pixel densities (e.g. 72 PPI or 96 PPI), specifying point
sizes for fonts from within an image editing application can be
unreliable when it comes to presenting text at a specific size. When
creating images of large-scale text, authors should ensure that the text
in the resulting image is roughly equivalent to 1.2 and 1.5 em or to
120% or 150% of the default size for body text. For example, for a 72
PPI image, an author would need to use approximately 19 pt and 24 pt
font sizes in order to successfully present images of large-scale text
to a user.

The previously-mentioned contrast requirements for text also apply to
images of text (text that has been rendered into pixels and then stored
in an image format) as stated in Success Criterion 1.4.3.

This requirement applies to situations in which images of text were
intended to be understood as text. Incidental text, such as in
photographs that happen to include a street sign, are not included. Nor
is text that for some reason is designed to be invisible to all viewers.
Stylized text, such as in corporate logos, should be treated in terms of
its function on the page, which may or may not warrant including the
content in the text alternative. Corporate visual guidelines beyond logo
and logotype are not included in the exception.

In this provision there is an exception that reads "that are part of a
picture that contains significant other visual content,". This exception
is intended to separate pictures that have text in them from images of
text that are done to replace text in order to get a particular look.

/Note 1: /Some people with cognitive disabilities require color
combinations or hues that have low contrast, and therefore we allow and
encourage authors to provide mechanisms to adjust the foreground and
background colors of the content. Some of the combinations that could be
chosen may have contrast levels that will be lower than those found in
the Success Criteria. This is not a violation of this Success Criteria
provided there is a mechanism that will return to the default values set
out in the Success Criteria.

/Note 2: /Images of text do not scale as well as text because they tend
to pixelate. It is also harder to change foreground and background
contrast and color combinations for images of text, which is necessary
for some users. Therefore, we suggest using text wherever possible, and
when not, consider supplying an image of higher resolution.

Although this Success Criterion only applies to text, similar issues
occur for data presented in charts or graphs. Good color contrast should
also be provided for data presented in these forms.

See also /Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.6 Contrast (Enhanced)
<#visual-audio-contrast7>/.


        Rationale for the Ratios Chosen

A contrast ratio of 3:1 is the minimum level recommended by [ISO-9241-3]
<#ISO-9241-3> and [ANSI-HFES-100-1988] <#ANSI-HFES-100-1988> for
standard text and vision. The 4.5:1 ratio is used in this provision to
account for the loss in contrast that results from moderately low visual
acuity, congenital or acquired color deficiencies, or the loss of
contrast sensitivity that typically accompanies aging.

The rationale is based on a) adoption of the 3:1 contrast ratio for
minimum acceptable contrast for normal observers, in the ANSI standard,
and b) the empirical finding that in the population, visual acuity of
20/40 is associated with a contrast sensitivity loss of roughly 1.5
[ARDITI-FAYE] <#ARDITI-FAYE>. A user with 20/40 would thus require a
contrast ratio of 3 * 1.5 = 4.5 to 1. Following analogous empirical
findings and the same logic, the user with 20/80 visual acuity would
require contrast of about 7:1.

Hues are perceived differently by users with color vision deficiencies
(both congenital and acquired) resulting in different colors and
relative luminance contrasts than for normally sighted users. Because of
this, effective contrast and readability are different for this
population. However, color deficiencies are so diverse that prescribing
effective general use color pairs (for contrast) based on quantitative
data is not feasible. Requiring good luminance contrast accommodates
this by requiring contrast that is independent of color perception.
Fortunately, most of the luminance contribution is from the mid and long
wave receptors which largely overlap in their spectral responses. The
result is that effective luminance contrast can generally be computed
without regard to specific color deficiency, except for the use of
predominantly long wavelength colors against darker colors (generally
appearing black) for those who have protanopia. (We provide an advisory
technique on avoiding red on black for that reason). For more
information see [ARDITI-KNOBLAUCH] <#ARDITI-KNOBLAUCH-1994>
[ARDITI-KNOBLAUCH-1996] <#ARDITI-KNOBLAUCH-1996> [ARDITI] <#ARDITI>.

The contrast ratio of 4.5:1 was chosen for level AA because it
compensated for the loss in contrast sensitivity usually experienced by
users with vision loss equivalent to approximately 20/40 vision. (20/40
calculates to approximately 4.5:1.) 20/40 is commonly reported as
typical visual acuity of elders at roughly age 80. [GITTINGS-FOZARD]
<#GITTINGS-FOZARD>

The contrast ratio of 7:1 was chosen for level AAA because it
compensated for the loss in contrast sensitivity usually experienced by
users with vision loss equivalent to approximately 20/80 vision. People
with more than this degree of vision loss usually use assistive
technologies to access their content (and the assistive technologies
usually have contrast enhancing, as well as magnification capability
built into them). The 7:1 level therefore generally provides
compensation for the loss in contrast sensitivity experienced by users
with low vision who do not use assistive technology and provides
contrast enhancement for color deficiency as well.

/Note: /Calculations in [ISO-9241-3] <#ISO-9241-3> and
[ANSI-HFES-100-1988] <#ANSI-HFES-100-1988> are for body text. A relaxed
contrast ratio is provided for text that is much larger.


        Notes on formula

Conversion from nonlinear to linear RGB values is based on IEC/4WD
61966-2-1 [IEC-4WD] <#IEC-4WD> and on "A Standard Default Color Space
for the Internet - sRGB" [sRGB] <#sRGB>.

The formula (L1/L2) for contrast is based on [ISO-9241-3] <#ISO-9241-3>
and [ANSI-HFES-100-1988] <#ANSI-HFES-100-1988> standards.

The ANSI/HFS 100-1988 standard calls for the contribution from ambient
light to be included in the calculation of L1 and L2. The .05 value used
is based on Typical Viewing Flare from [IEC-4WD] <#IEC-4WD> and the
[sRGB] <#sRGB> paper by M. Stokes et al.

This Success Criterion and its definitions use the terms "contrast
ratio" and "relative luminance" rather than "luminance" to reflect the
fact that Web content does not emit light itself. The contrast ratio
gives a measure of the relative luminance that would result when
displayed. (Because it is a ratio, it is dimensionless.)

/Note 1: / Refer to related resources
<#visual-audio-contrast-contrast-resources-head> for a list of tools
that utilize the contrast ratio to analyze the contrast of Web content.

/Note 2: /See also /Understanding Success Criterion 2.4.7 Focus Visible
<#navigation-mechanisms-focus-visible>/ for techniques for indicating
keyboard focus.

/Note 3: /It is sometimes helpful for authors to not specify colors for
certain sections of a page in order to help users who need to view
content with specific color combinations to view the content in their
preferred color scheme. Refer to /Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.5
Images of Text <#visual-audio-contrast-text-presentation>/ for more
information.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.4.3

  *

    People with low vision often have difficulty reading text that does
    not contrast with its background. This can be exacerbated if the
    person has a color vision deficiency that lowers the contrast even
    further. Providing a minimum luminance contrast ratio between the
    text and its background can make the text more readable even if the
    person does not see the full range of colors. It also works for the
    rare individuals who see no color.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.4.3

(none currently documented)


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Contrast Analyser – Application
    <http://www.paciellogroup.com/resources/contrast-analyser.html>

  *

    Contrast Ratio Analyser - online service
    <http://juicystudio.com/services/luminositycontrastratio.php>

  *

    Colour Contrast Analyser - Firefox Extension
    <http://juicystudio.com/article/colour-contrast-analyser-firefox-extension.php>


  *

    Colour Contrast Check
    <http://snook.ca/technical/colour_contrast/colour.html>

  *

    Contrast Ratio Calculator
    <http://www.msfw.com/accessibility/tools/contrastratiocalculator.aspx>

  *

    Color Contrast Samples <http://trace.wisc.edu/contrast-ratio-examples/>

  *

    Atypical colour response
    <http://www.w3.org/Graphics/atypical-color-response>

  *

    Colors On the Web Color Contrast Analyzer
    <http://www.colorsontheweb.com/colorcontrast.asp>

  *

    Tool to convert images based on color loss so that contrast is
    restored as luminance contrast when there was only color contrast
    (that was lost due to color deficiency)
    <http://www.vischeck.com/daltonize/runDaltonize.php>

  *

    List of color contrast tools
    <http://www.456bereastreet.com/archive/200709/10_colour_contrast_checking_tools_to_improve_the_accessibility_of_your_design/>


  *

    American Printing House for the Blind Guidelines for Large Print
    <http://www.aph.org/edresearch/lpguide.htm>

  *

    National Library Service for the Blind and Physically Handicapped
    (NLS), The Library of Congress Guidelines for Large Print
    <http://www.loc.gov/nls/reference/circulars/largeprint.html>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.4.3 - Contrast
      (Minimum)

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

*Instructions:* Select the situation below that matches your content.
Each situation includes numbered techniques (or combinations of
techniques) that the Working Group deems to be sufficient for that
situation.


          Situation A: text is less than 18 point if not bold and less
          than 14 point if bold

 1.

    G18: Ensuring that a contrast ratio of at least 4.5:1 exists between
    text (and images of text) and background behind the text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G18>

 2.

    G148: Not specifying background color, not specifying text color,
    and not using technology features that change those defaults
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G148>

 3.

    G174: Providing a control with a sufficient contrast ratio that
    allows users to switch to a presentation that uses sufficient
    contrast <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G174>

 4.

    SL13: Providing A Style Switcher To Switch To High Contrast
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL13>
    (Silverlight)


          Situation B: text is at least 18 point if not bold and at
          least 14 point if bold

 1.

    G145: Ensuring that a contrast ratio of at least 3:1 exists between
    text (and images of text) and background behind the text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G145>

 2.

    G148: Not specifying background color, not specifying text color,
    and not using technology features that change those defaults
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G148>

 3.

    G174: Providing a control with a sufficient contrast ratio that
    allows users to switch to a presentation that uses sufficient
    contrast <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G174>

 4.

    SL13: Providing A Style Switcher To Switch To High Contrast
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL13>
    (Silverlight)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.4.3

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    G156: Using a technology that has commonly-available user agents
    that can change the foreground and background of blocks of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G156>

  *

    Using a higher contrast value for text that is over a patterned
    background (future link)

  *

    Using Unicode text and style sheets instead of images of text
    (future link)

  *

    Using a higher contrast values for lines in diagrams (future link)

  *

    Using greater contrast level for red-black text/background
    combinations (future link)

  *

    Using colors that are composed predominantly of mid spectral
    components for the light and spectral extremes (blue and red
    wavelengths) for the dark

  *

    Using a light pastel background rather than a white background
    behind black text to create sufficient but not extreme contrast
    (future link)

  *

    Making icons using simple line drawings that meet the contrast
    provisions for text (future link)

  *

    Providing sufficient color contrast in graphs and charts (future link)

  *

    Using a 3:1 contrast ratio or higher as the default presentation
    (future link)

  *

    Providing sufficient color contrast for empty text fields (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 1.4.3

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.4.3 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F24: Failure of Success Criterion 1.4.3, 1.4.6 and 1.4.8 due to
    specifying foreground colors without specifying background colors or
    vice versa <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F24>

  *

    F83: Failure of Success Criterion 1.4.3 and 1.4.6 due to using
    background images that do not provide sufficient contrast with
    foreground text (or images of text)
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F83>


      Key Terms

contrast ratio

    (L1 + 0.05) / (L2 + 0.05), where

      *

        L1 is the relative luminance
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#relativeluminancedef>
        of the lighter of the colors, and

      *

        L2 is the relative luminance
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#relativeluminancedef>
        of the darker of the colors.

    /Note 1: /Contrast ratios can range from 1 to 21 (commonly written
    1:1 to 21:1).

    /Note 2: /Because authors do not have control over user settings as
    to how text is rendered (for example font smoothing or
    anti-aliasing), the contrast ratio for text can be evaluated with
    anti-aliasing turned off.

    /Note 3: /For the purpose of Success Criteria 1.4.3 and 1.4.6,
    contrast is measured with respect to the specified background over
    which the text is rendered in normal usage. If no background color
    is specified, then white is assumed.

    /Note 4: /Background color is the specified color of content over
    which the text is to be rendered in normal usage. It is a failure if
    no background color is specified when the text color is specified,
    because the user's default background color is unknown and cannot be
    evaluated for sufficient contrast. For the same reason, it is a
    failure if no text color is specified when a background color is
    specified.

    /Note 5: /When there is a border around the letter, the border can
    add contrast and would be used in calculating the contrast between
    the letter and its background. A narrow border around the letter
    would be used as the letter. A wide border around the letter that
    fills in the inner details of the letters acts as a halo and would
    be considered background.

    /Note 6: /WCAG conformance should be evaluated for color pairs
    specified in the content that an author would expect to appear
    adjacent in typical presentation. Authors need not consider unusual
    presentations, such as color changes made by the user agent, except
    where caused by authors' code.

image of text

    text that has been rendered in a non-text form (e.g., an image) in
    order to achieve a particular visual effect

    /Note: /This does not include text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#textdef> that is
    part of a picture that contains significant other visual content.

    /Example: /A person's name on a nametag in a photograph.

large scale (text)

    with at least 18 point or 14 point bold or font size that would
    yield equivalent size for Chinese, Japanese and Korean (CJK) fonts

    /Note 1: /Fonts with extraordinarily thin strokes or unusual
    features and characteristics that reduce the familiarity of their
    letter forms are harder to read, especially at lower contrast levels.

    /Note 2: /Font size is the size when the content is delivered. It
    does not include resizing that may be done by a user.

    /Note 3: /The actual size of the character that a user sees is
    dependent both on the author-defined size and the user's display or
    user-agent settings. For many mainstream body text fonts, 14 and 18
    point is roughly equivalent to 1.2 and 1.5 em or to 120% or 150% of
    the default size for body text (assuming that the body font is
    100%), but authors would need to check this for the particular fonts
    in use. When fonts are defined in relative units, the actual point
    size is calculated by the user agent for display. The point size
    should be obtained from the user agent, or calculated based on font
    metrics as the user agent does, when evaluating this success
    criterion. Users who have low vision would be responsible for
    choosing appropriate settings.

    /Note 4: /When using text without specifying the font size, the
    smallest font size used on major browsers for unspecified text would
    be a reasonable size to assume for the font. If a level 1 heading is
    rendered in 14pt bold or higher on major browsers, then it would be
    reasonable to assume it is large text. Relative scaling can be
    calculated from the default sizes in a similar fashion.

    /Note 5: /The 18 and 14 point sizes for roman texts are taken from
    the minimum size for large print (14pt) and the larger standard font
    size (18pt). For other fonts such as CJK languages, the "equivalent"
    sizes would be the minimum large print size used for those languages
    and the next larger standard large print size.

pure decoration

    serving only an aesthetic purpose, providing no information, and
    having no functionality

    /Note: /Text is only purely decorative if the words can be
    rearranged or substituted without changing their purpose.

    /Example: /The cover page of a dictionary has random words in very
    light text in the background.

text

    sequence of characters that can be programmatically determined
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#programmaticallydetermineddef>,
    where the sequence is expressing something in human language
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#human-langdef>

user interface component

    a part of the content that is perceived by users as a single control
    for a distinct function

    /Note 1: /Multiple user interface components may be implemented as a
    single programmatic element. Components here is not tied to
    programming techniques, but rather to what the user perceives as
    separate controls.

    /Note 2: /User interface components include form elements and links
    as well as components generated by scripts.

    /Example: /An applet has a "control" that can be used to move
    through content by line or page or random access. Since each of
    these would need to have a name and be settable independently, they
    would each be a "user interface component."

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Resize text*:
    Understanding SC 1.4.4

    *1.4.4
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#visual-audio-contrast-scale>
    Resize text:* Except for captions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#captionsdef> and
    images of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#images-of-textdef>,
    text <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#textdef> can be
    resized without assistive technology
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#atdef> up to 200
    percent without loss of content or functionality. (Level AA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that visually rendered
text, including text-based controls (text characters that have been
displayed so that they can be seen [vs. text characters that are still
in data form such as ASCII]) can be scaled successfully so that it can
be read directly by people with mild visual disabilities, without
requiring the use of assistive technology such as a screen magnifier.
Users may benefit from scaling all content on the Web page, but text is
most critical.

The scaling of content is primarily a user agent responsibility. User
agents that satisfy UAAG 1.0 Checkpoint 4.1
<http://www.w3.org/TR/WAI-USERAGENT/guidelines.html#tech-configure-text-scale>
allow users to configure text scale. The author's responsibility is to
create Web content that does not prevent the user agent from scaling the
content effectively. Authors may satisfy this Success Criterion by
verifying that content does not interfere with user agent support for
resizing text, including text-based controls, or by providing direct
support for resizing text or changing the layout. An example of direct
support might be via server-side script that can be used to assign
different style sheets.

The author cannot rely on the user agent to satisfy this Success
Criterion for HTML content if users do not have access to a user agent
with zoom support. For example, if they work in an environment that
requires them to use IE 6 or Firefox.

If the author is using a technology whose user agents do not provide
zoom support, the author is responsible to provide this type of
functionality directly or to provide content that works with the type of
functionality provided by the user agent. If the user agent doesn't
provide zoom functionality but does let the the user change the text
size, the author is responsible for ensuring that the content remains
usable when the text is resized.

Some user interface components that function as a label and require
activation by the user to access content are not wide enough to
accommodate the label's content. For example, in Web mail applications
the subject column may not wide enough to accommodate every possible
subject header, but activating the subject header takes the user to the
full message with the full subject header. In Web-based spreadsheets,
cell content that is too long to be displayed in a column can be
truncated, and the full content of the cell is available to the user
when the cell receives focus. The content of a user interface component
may also become too wide in user interfaces where the user can resize
the column width. In this type of user interface component, line
wrapping is not required; truncation is acceptable if the component's
full content is available on focus or after user activation and an
indication that this information can be accessed, is provided to the
user in some way besides the fact that it is truncated.

Content satisfies the Success Criterion if it can be scaled up to 200%,
that is, up to twice the width and height. Authors may support scaling
beyond that limit, however, as scaling becomes more extreme, adaptive
layouts may introduce usability problems. For example, words may be too
wide to fit into the horizontal space available to them, causing them to
be truncated; layout constraints may cause text to overlap with other
content when it is scaled larger; or only one word of a sentence may fit
on each line, causing the sentence to be displayed as a vertical column
of text that is difficult to read.

The working group feels that 200% is a reasonable accommodation that can
support a wide range of designs and layouts, and complements older
screen magnifiers that provide a minimum magnification of 200%. Above
200%, zoom (which resizes text, images, and layout regions and creates a
larger canvas that may require both horizontal and vertical scrolling)
may be more effective than text resizing. Assistive technology dedicated
to zoom support would usually be used in such a situation and may
provide better accessibility than attempts by the author to support the
user directly.

/Note: /Images of text do not scale as well as text because they tend to
pixelate, and therefore we suggest using text wherever possible. It is
also harder to change foreground and background contrast and color
combinations for images of text, which are necessary for some users.

See also /Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.8 Visual Presentation
<#visual-audio-contrast-visual-presentation>/.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.4.4

  *

    This Success Criterion helps people with low vision by letting them
    increase text size in content so that they can read it.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.4.4

  *

    A user with vision impairments increases the text size on a Web page
    in a browser from 1 em to 1.2 ems. While the user could not read the
    text at the smaller size, she can read the larger text. All the
    information on the page is still displayed when the larger font is
    used for the text.

  *

    A Web page contains a control for changing the scale of the page.
    Selecting different settings changes the layout of the page to use
    the best design for that scale.

  *

    A user uses a zoom function in his user agent to change the scale of
    the content. All the content scales uniformly, and the user agent
    provides scroll bars, if necessary.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    CSS 2 Box Model <http://www.w3.org/TR/CSS2/box.html>

  *

    CSS 2 Visual formatting Model <http://www.w3.org/TR/CSS2/visuren.html>

  *

    CSS 2 Visual formatting Model Details
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/CSS2/visudet.html>

  *

    About fluid and fixed width layouts
    <http://www.456bereastreet.com/archive/200504/about_fluid_and_fixed_width_layouts/>


  *

    Accessible CSS
    <http://cookiecrook.com/AIR/2003/train/accessiblecss.php>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.4.4 - Resize text

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G142: Using a technology that has commonly-available user agents
    that support zoom
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G142>

 2.

    SL22: Supporting Browser Zoom in Silverlight
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL22>
    (Silverlight)

 3.

    SL23: Using A Style Switcher to Increase Font Size of Silverlight
    Text Elements
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL23>
    (Silverlight)

 4.

    Ensuring that text containers resize when the text resizes *AND*
    using measurements that are relative to other measurements in the
    content by using one or more of the following techniques:

      *

        C28: Specifying the size of text containers using em units
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C28> (CSS)

      *

        Techniques for relative measurements

          o

            C12: Using percent for font sizes
            <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C12>
            (CSS)

          o

            C13: Using named font sizes
            <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C13>
            (CSS)

          o

            C14: Using em units for font sizes
            <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C14>
            (CSS)

      *

        Techniques for text container resizing

          o

            SCR34: Calculating size and position in a way that scales
            with text size
            <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SCR34>
            (Scripting)

          o

            G146: Using liquid layout
            <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G146>

 5.

    G178: Providing controls on the Web page that allow users to
    incrementally change the size of all text on the page up to 200
    percent <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G178>

 6.

    G179: Ensuring that there is no loss of content or functionality
    when the text resizes and text containers do not change their width
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G179>


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.4.4

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Providing large fonts by default (future link)

  *

    Using page-percent for container sizes (future link)

  *

    Avoiding scaling font sizes smaller than the user-agent default
    (future link)

    /Note: /The author won't actually know the font size, but should
    avoid percentage scaling that results in less than 100%

  *

    Avoiding justified text (future link)

  *

    Providing sufficient inter-line and inter-column spacing (future link)

  *

    Providing different sizes for non-text content when it cannot have
    an equivalent accessible alternative (future link)

  *

    Avoiding the use of text in raster images (future link)

  *

    Using server-side scripts to resize images of text (future link)

  *

    C17: Scaling form elements which contain text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C17> (CSS)

  *

    Ensuring that text in raster images is at least 18pt (future link)

  *

    Scaling text down to 50% (future link)

  *

    C20: Using relative measurements to set column widths so that lines
    can average 80 characters or less when the browser is resized
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C20> (CSS)

  *

    C22: Using CSS to control visual presentation of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C22> (CSS)

  *

    Providing a mechanism to allow captions to be enlarged (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 1.4.4

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.4.4 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F69: Failure of Success Criterion 1.4.4 when resizing visually
    rendered text up to 200 percent causes the text, image or controls
    to be clipped, truncated or obscured
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F69>

  *

    F80: Failure of Success Criterion 1.4.4 when text-based form
    controls do not resize when visually rendered text is resized up to
    200% <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F80>


      Key Terms

assistive technology (as used in this document)

    hardware and/or software that acts as a user agent
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>, or
    along with a mainstream user agent, to provide functionality to meet
    the requirements of users with disabilities that go beyond those
    offered by mainstream user agents

    /Note 1: / functionality provided by assistive technology includes
    alternative presentations (e.g., as synthesized speech or magnified
    content), alternative input methods (e.g., voice), additional
    navigation or orientation mechanisms, and content transformations
    (e.g., to make tables more accessible).

    /Note 2: /Assistive technologies often communicate data and messages
    with mainstream user agents by using and monitoring APIs.

    /Note 3: /The distinction between mainstream user agents and
    assistive technologies is not absolute. Many mainstream user agents
    provide some features to assist individuals with disabilities. The
    basic difference is that mainstream user agents target broad and
    diverse audiences that usually include people with and without
    disabilities. Assistive technologies target narrowly defined
    populations of users with specific disabilities. The assistance
    provided by an assistive technology is more specific and appropriate
    to the needs of its target users. The mainstream user agent may
    provide important functionality to assistive technologies like
    retrieving Web content from program objects or parsing markup into
    identifiable bundles.

    /Example: /Assistive technologies that are important in the context
    of this document include the following:

      *

        screen magnifiers, and other visual reading assistants, which
        are used by people with visual, perceptual and physical print
        disabilities to change text font, size, spacing, color,
        synchronization with speech, etc. in order to improve the visual
        readability of rendered text and images;

      *

        screen readers, which are used by people who are blind to read
        textual information through synthesized speech or braille;

      *

        text-to-speech software, which is used by some people with
        cognitive, language, and learning disabilities to convert text
        into synthetic speech;

      *

        speech recognition software, which may be used by people who
        have some physical disabilities;

      *

        alternative keyboards, which are used by people with certain
        physical disabilities to simulate the keyboard (including
        alternate keyboards that use head pointers, single switches,
        sip/puff and other special input devices.);

      *

        alternative pointing devices, which are used by people with
        certain physical disabilities to simulate mouse pointing and
        button activations.

captions

    synchronized visual and/or text alternative
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#text-altdef> for
    both speech and non-speech audio information needed to understand
    the media content

    /Note 1: /Captions are similar to dialogue-only subtitles except
    captions convey not only the content of spoken dialogue, but also
    equivalents for non-dialogue audio information needed to understand
    the program content, including sound effects, music, laughter,
    speaker identification and location.

    /Note 2: /Closed Captions are equivalents that can be turned on and
    off with some players.

    /Note 3: /Open Captions are any captions that cannot be turned off.
    For example, if the captions are visual equivalent images of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#images-of-textdef>
    embedded in video
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef>.

    /Note 4: /Captions should not obscure or obstruct relevant
    information in the video.

    /Note 5: /In some countries, captions are called subtitles.

    /Note 6: / Audio descriptions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodescdef> can
    be, but do not need to be, captioned since they are descriptions of
    information that is already presented visually.

image of text

    text that has been rendered in a non-text form (e.g., an image) in
    order to achieve a particular visual effect

    /Note: /This does not include text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#textdef> that is
    part of a picture that contains significant other visual content.

    /Example: /A person's name on a nametag in a photograph.

text

    sequence of characters that can be programmatically determined
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#programmaticallydetermineddef>,
    where the sequence is expressing something in human language
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#human-langdef>

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Images of Text*:
    Understanding SC 1.4.5

    *1.4.5
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#visual-audio-contrast-text-presentation>
    Images of Text:* If the technologies being used can achieve the
    visual presentation, text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#textdef> is used to
    convey information rather than images of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#images-of-textdef>
    except for the following: (Level AA)

      *

        *Customizable:* The image of text can be visually customized
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#visually-customizeddef>
        to the user's requirements;

      *

        *Essential:* A particular presentation of text is essential
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#essentialdef> to
        the information being conveyed.

    /Note: /Logotypes (text that is part of a logo or brand name) are
    considered essential.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to encourage authors, who are
using technologies which are capable of achieving their desired default
visual presentation, to enable people who require a particular visual
presentation of text to be able to adjust the text presentation as
needed. This includes people who require the text in a particular font
size, foreground and background color, font family, line spacing or
alignment.

If an author can use text to achieve the same visual effect, he or she
should present the information as text rather than using an image. If
for any reason, the author cannot format the text to get the same
effect, the effect won't be reliably presented on the commonly available
user agents, or using a technology to meet this criterion would
interfere with meeting other criterion such as 1.4.4, then an image of
text can be used. This includes instances where a particular
presentation of text is essential to the information being conveyed,
such as type samples, logotypes, branding, etc. Images of text may also
be used in order to use a particular font that is either not widely
deployed or which the author doesn't have the right to redistribute, or
to ensure that the text would be anti-aliased on all user agents.

Images of text can also be used where it is possible for users to
customize the image of text to match their requirements.

The definition of image of text contains the note: "Note: This does not
include text that is part of a picture that contains significant other
visual content." Examples of such pictures include graphs, screenshots,
and diagrams which visually convey important information through more
than just text.

Techniques for satisfying this Success Criterion are the same as those
for Success Criterion 1.4.9, except that they only need to apply if the
visual presentation can be achieved with the technologies that the
author is using. For Success Criterion 1.4.9, the sufficient techniques
would be applied only when the user can customize the output.

See also /Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.9 Images of Text (No
Exception) <#visual-audio-contrast-text-images>/.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.4.5

  *

    People with low vision (who may have trouble reading the text with
    the authored font family, size and/or color).

  *

    People with visual tracking problems (who may have trouble reading
    the text with the authored line spacing and/or alignment).

  *

    People with cognitive disabilities that affect reading.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.4.5

  *

    *Styled Headings *

    Rather than using bitmap images to present headings in a specific
    font and size, an author uses CSS to achieve the same result.

  *

    *Dynamically Generated Images *

    A Web page uses server-side scripting to present text as an an
    image. The page includes controls that allow the user to adjust the
    font size and foreground and background colors of the generated image.

  *

    *A quote*

    A Web page contains a quote. The quote itself is presented as
    italicized text, indented from the left margin. The name of the
    person to whom the quote is attributed is below the quote with 1.5x
    the line space and further indented from the left margin. CSS is
    used to position the text; set the spacing between lines; as well as
    display the text's font family, size, color and decoration.

  *

    *Navigation items*

    A Web page contains a menu of navigation links that have both an
    icon and text to describe their target. CSS is used to display the
    text's font family, size and foreground and background colors; as
    well as the spacing between the navigation links.

  *

    *A logo containing text*

    A Web site contains the organization's logo in the top left corner
    of each Web page. The logo contains logotype (text as part, or all,
    of the logo). The visual presentation of the text is essential to
    the identity of the logo and is included as a gif image which does
    not allow the text characteristics to be changed. The image has a
    text alternative.

  *

    *Representation of a font family*

    A Web page contains information about a particular font family.
    Substituting the font family with another font would defeat the
    purpose of the representation. The representation is included as a
    jpeg image which does not allow the text characteristics to be
    changed. The image has a text alternative.

  *

    *A representation of a letter*

    A Web page contains a representation of an original letter. The
    depiction of the letter in its original format is essential to
    information being conveyed about the time period in which it was
    written. The letter is included as a gif image which does not allow
    the text characteristics to be changed. The image has a text
    alternative.

  *

    *Symbolic text characters*

    A form allows users to enter blocks of text. The form provides a
    number of buttons, including functions to style the text and check
    spelling. Some of the buttons use text characters that do not form a
    sequence that expresses something in human language. For example "B"
    to increase font weight, "I" to italicize the text and "ABC" to
    check the spelling. The symbolic text characters are included as gif
    images which do not allow the text characteristics to be changed.
    The buttons have text alternatives.

  *

    *Customizable font settings in images of text*

    A Web site allows users to specify font settings and all images of
    text on the site are then provided based on those settings.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    CSS Web fonts <http://www.alistapart.com/articles/cssatten>

  *

    Weblog comments: WebKit now supports CSS @font-face rules
    <http://clagnut.com/blog/2042/>

  *

    Creating Cross Browser Compatible CSS Text Shadows
    <http://www.workingwith.me.uk/articles/css/cross-browser-drop-shadows>

  *

    CSS and text <http://www.yourhtmlsource.com/stylesheets/csstext.html>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.4.5 - Images of Text

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    C22: Using CSS to control visual presentation of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C22> (CSS)

 2.

    SL31: Using Silverlight Font Properties to Control Text Presentation
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL31>
    (Silverlight)

 3.

    C30: Using CSS to replace text with images of text and providing
    user interface controls to switch
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C30> (CSS)

 4.

    G140: Separating information and structure from presentation to
    enable different presentations
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G140>

 5.

    PDF7: Performing OCR on a scanned PDF document to provide actual
    text <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/PDF7> (PDF)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.4.5

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.


          General techniques for non-text content

 1.

    Identifying informative non-text content (future link)


          CSS Techniques

 1.

    C12: Using percent for font sizes
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C12> (CSS)

 2.

    C13: Using named font sizes
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C13> (CSS)

 3.

    C14: Using em units for font sizes
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C14> (CSS)

 4.

    C8: Using CSS letter-spacing to control spacing within a word
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C8> (CSS)

 5.

    C6: Positioning content based on structural markup
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C6> (CSS)

 6.

    Avoid applying text styling to text characters within a word (future
    link)


        Common Failures for SC 1.4.5

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.4.5 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

essential

    if removed, would fundamentally change the information or
    functionality of the content, *and* information and functionality
    cannot be achieved in another way that would conform

image of text

    text that has been rendered in a non-text form (e.g., an image) in
    order to achieve a particular visual effect

    /Note: /This does not include text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#textdef> that is
    part of a picture that contains significant other visual content.

    /Example: /A person's name on a nametag in a photograph.

text

    sequence of characters that can be programmatically determined
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#programmaticallydetermineddef>,
    where the sequence is expressing something in human language
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#human-langdef>

visually customized

    the font, size, color, and background can be set

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Contrast (Enhanced)*:
    Understanding SC 1.4.6

    *1.4.6
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#visual-audio-contrast7>
    Contrast (Enhanced):* The visual presentation of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#textdef> and images
    of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#images-of-textdef>
    has a contrast ratio
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#contrast-ratiodef>
    of at least 7:1, except for the following: (Level AAA)

      *

        *Large Text: * Large-scale
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#larger-scaledef>
        text and images of large-scale text have a contrast ratio of at
        least 4.5:1;

      *

        *Incidental: * Text or images of text that are part of an
        inactive user interface component
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#user-interface-componentdef>,
        that are pure decoration
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#puredecdef>,
        that are not visible to anyone, or that are part of a picture
        that contains significant other visual content, have no contrast
        requirement.

      *

        *Logotypes: * Text that is part of a logo or brand name has no
        minimum contrast requirement.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to provide enough contrast
between text and its background so that it can be read by people with
moderately low vision (who do not use contrast-enhancing assistive
technology). For people without color deficiencies, hue and saturation
have minimal or no effect on legibility as assessed by reading
performance (Knoblauch et al., 1991). Color deficiencies can affect
luminance contrast somewhat. Therefore, in the recommendation, the
contrast is calculated in such a way that color is not a key factor so
that people who have a color vision deficit will also have adequate
contrast between the text and the background.

Text that is decorative and conveys no information is excluded. For
example, if random words are used to create a background and the words
could be rearranged or substituted without changing meaning, then it
would be decorative and would not need to meet this criterion.

Text that is larger and has wider character strokes is easier to read at
lower contrast. The contrast requirement for larger text is therefore
lower. This allows authors to use a wider range of color choices for
large text, which is helpful for design of pages, particularly titles.
18 point text or 14 point bold text is judged to be large enough to
require a lower contrast ratio. (See The American Printing House for the
Blind Guidelines for Large Printing and The Library of Congress
Guidelines for Large Print under Resources
<#visual-audio-contrast7-resources-head>). "18 point" and "bold" can
both have different meanings in different fonts but, except for very
thin or unusual fonts, they should be sufficient. Since there are so
many different fonts, the general measures are used and a note regarding
fancy or thin fonts is included.

/Note 1: /When fonts have anti-aliasing applied to make them look
smoother, they can lose darkness or lightness. Thus, the actual contrast
can be reduced. Thicker stem widths will reduce this effect (thin fonts
could have the full stem lightened rather than just the ends). Using
larger fonts and testing for legibility in user agents with font
smoothing turned on is recommended.

/Note 2: /Because different image editing applications default to
different pixel densities (ex. 72 PPI or 96 PPI), specifying point sizes
for fonts from within an image editing application can be unreliable
when it comes to presenting text at a specific size. When creating
images of large-scale text, authors should ensure that the text in the
resulting image is roughly equivalent to 1.2 and 1.5 em or to 120% or
150% of the default size for body text. For example, for a 72 PPI image,
an author would need to use approximately 19 pt and 24 pt font sizes in
order to successfully present large-scale images of text to a user.

The previously-mentioned contrast requirements for text also apply to
images of text (text that has been rendered into pixels and then stored
in an image format) as stated in Success Criterion 1.4.5

This requirement applies to situations in which images of text were
intended to be understood as text. Incidental text, such as in
photographs that happen to include a street sign, are not included. Nor
is text that for some reason is designed to be invisible to all users.
Stylized text, such as in corporate logos, should be treated in terms of
its function on the page, which may or may not warrant including the
content in the text alternative. Corporate visual guidelines beyond logo
and logotype are not included in the exception.

In this provision there is an exception that reads "that are part of a
picture that contains significant other visual content,". This exception
is intended to separate pictures that have text in them from images of
text that are done to replace text in order to get a particular look.

Although this Success Criterion only applies to text, similar issues
occur for data presented in charts or graphs. Good color contrast should
also be provided for data presented in these forms.


        Rationale for the Ratios Chosen

A contrast ratio of 3:1 is the minimum level recommended by [ISO-9241-3]
<#ISO-9241-3> and [ANSI-HFES-100-1988] <#ANSI-HFES-100-1988> for
standard text and vision. The 4.5:1 ratio is used in Success Criterion
1.4.3 to account for the loss in contrast that results from moderately
low visual acuity, congenital or acquired color deficiencies, or the
loss of contrast sensitivity that typically accompanies aging.

The rationale is based on a) adoption of the 3:1 contrast ratio for
minimum acceptable contrast for normal observers, in the ANSI standard,
and b) the empirical finding that in the population, visual acuity of
20/40 is associated with a contrast sensitivity loss of roughly 1.5
[ARDITI-FAYE] <#ARDITI-FAYE>. A user with 20/40 would thus require a
contrast ratio of 3 * 1.5 = 4.5 to 1. Following analogous empirical
findings and the same logic, the user with 20/80 visual acuity would
require contrast of about 7:1.

Hues are perceived differently by users with color vision deficiencies
(both congenital and acquired) resulting in different colors and
relative luminance contrasts than for normally sighted users. Because of
this, effective contrast and readability are different for this
population. However, color deficiencies are so diverse that prescribing
effective general use color pairs (for contrast) based on quantitative
data is not feasible. Requiring good luminance contrast accommodates
this by requiring contrast that is independent of color perception.
Fortunately, most of the luminance contribution is from the mid and long
wave receptors which largely overlap in their spectral responses. The
result is that effective luminance contrast can generally be computed
without regard to specific color deficiency, except for the use of
predominantly long wavelength colors against darker colors (generally
appearing black) for those who have protanopia. (We provide an advisory
technique on avoiding red on black for that reason). For more
information see [ARDITI-KNOBLAUCH] <#ARDITI-KNOBLAUCH-1994>
[ARDITI-KNOBLAUCH-1996] <#ARDITI-KNOBLAUCH-1996> [ARDITI] <#ARDITI>.

The contrast ratio of 4.5:1 was chosen for level AA because it
compensated for the loss in contrast sensitivity usually experienced by
users with vision loss equivalent to approximately 20/40 vision. (20/40
calculates to approximately 4.5:1.) 20/40 is commonly reported as
typical visual acuity of elders at roughly age 80. [GITTINGS-FOZARD]
<#GITTINGS-FOZARD>

The contrast ratio of 7:1 was chosen for level AAA because it
compensated for the loss in contrast sensitivity usually experienced by
users with vision loss equivalent to approximately 20/80 vision. People
with more than this degree of vision loss usually use assistive
technologies to access their content (and the assistive technologies
usually have contrast enhancing, as well as magnification capability
built into them). The 7:1 level therefore generally provides
compensation for the loss in contrast sensitivity experienced by users
with low vision who do not use assistive technology and provides
contrast enhancement for color deficiency as well.

/Note: /Calculations in [ISO-9241-3] <#ISO-9241-3> and
[ANSI-HFES-100-1988] <#ANSI-HFES-100-1988> are for body text. A relaxed
contrast ratio is provided for text that is much larger.


        Notes on formula

Conversion from nonlinear to linear RGB values is based on IEC/4WD
61966-2-1 [IEC-4WD] <#IEC-4WD> and on "A Standard Default Color Space
for the Internet - sRGB" [sRGB] <#sRGB>.

The formula (L1/L2) for contrast is based on [ISO-9241-3] <#ISO-9241-3>
and [ANSI-HFES-100-1988] <#ANSI-HFES-100-1988> standards.

The ANSI/HFS 100-1988 standard calls for the contribution from ambient
light to be included in the calculation of L1 and L2. The .05 value used
is based on Typical Viewing Flare from [IEC-4WD] <#IEC-4WD> and the
[sRGB] <#sRGB> paper by M. Stokes et al.

This Success Criterion and its definitions use the terms "contrast
ratio" and "relative luminance" rather than "luminance" to reflect the
fact that Web content does not emit light itself. The contrast ratio
gives a measure of the relative luminance that would result when
displayed. (Because it is a ratio, it is dimensionless.)

/Note 1: / Refer to related resources
<#visual-audio-contrast7-resources-head> for a list of tools that
utilize the contrast ratio to analyze the contrast of Web content.

/Note 2: /See also /Understanding Success Criterion 2.4.7 Focus Visible
<#navigation-mechanisms-focus-visible>/ for techniques for indicating
keyboard focus.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.4.6

  *

    People with low vision often have difficulty reading text that does
    not contrast with its background. This can be exacerbated if the
    person has a color vision deficiency that lowers the contrast even
    further. Providing a minimum luminance contrast ratio between the
    text and its background can make the text more readable even if the
    person does not see the full range of colors. It also works for the
    rare individuals who see no color.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.4.6

(none currently documented)


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Contrast Analyser – Application
    <http://www.paciellogroup.com/resources/contrast-analyser.html>

  *

    Contrast Ratio Analyser - online service
    <http://juicystudio.com/services/luminositycontrastratio.php>

  *

    Colour Contrast Analyser - Firefox Extension
    <http://juicystudio.com/article/colour-contrast-analyser-firefox-extension.php>


  *

    Colour Contrast Check
    <http://snook.ca/technical/colour_contrast/colour.html>

  *

    Contrast Ratio Calculator
    <http://www.msfw.com/accessibility/tools/contrastratiocalculator.aspx>

  *

    Color Contrast Samples <http://trace.wisc.edu/contrast-ratio-examples/>

  *

    Atypical colour response
    <http://www.w3.org/Graphics/atypical-color-response>

  *

    Colors On the Web Color Contrast Analyzer
    <http://www.colorsontheweb.com/colorcontrast.asp>

  *

    American Printing House for the Blind Guidelines for Large Print
    <http://www.aph.org/edresearch/lpguide.htm>

  *

    National Library Service for the Blind and Physically Handicapped
    (NLS), The Library of Congress Guidelines for Large Print
    <http://www.loc.gov/nls/reference/circulars/largeprint.html>

  *

    6 Surprising Bad Practices That Hurt Dyslexic Users
    <http://uxmovement.com/content/6-surprising-bad-practices-that-hurt-dyslexic-users/>

  *

    Design for Dyslexics
    <http://accessites.org/site/2006/11/designing-for-dyslexics-part-3-of-3>

  *

    Typefaces for Dyslexia <http://www.dyslexic.com/fonts>

  *

    Web Design for Dyslexia <http://www.dyslexia.com/library/webdesign.htm>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.4.6 - Contrast
      (Enhanced)

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

*Instructions:* Select the situation below that matches your content.
Each situation includes numbered techniques (or combinations of
techniques) that the Working Group deems to be sufficient for that
situation.


          Situation A: text is less than 18 point if not bold and less
          than 14 point if bold

 1.

    G17: Ensuring that a contrast ratio of at least 7:1 exists between
    text (and images of text) and background behind the text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G17>

 2.

    G148: Not specifying background color, not specifying text color,
    and not using technology features that change those defaults
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G148>

 3.

    G174: Providing a control with a sufficient contrast ratio that
    allows users to switch to a presentation that uses sufficient
    contrast <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G174>

 4.

    SL13: Providing A Style Switcher To Switch To High Contrast
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL13>
    (Silverlight)


          Situation B: text is as least 18 point if not bold and at
          least 14 point if bold

 1.

    G18: Ensuring that a contrast ratio of at least 4.5:1 exists between
    text (and images of text) and background behind the text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G18>

 2.

    G148: Not specifying background color, not specifying text color,
    and not using technology features that change those defaults
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G148>

 3.

    G174: Providing a control with a sufficient contrast ratio that
    allows users to switch to a presentation that uses sufficient
    contrast <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G174>

 4.

    SL13: Providing A Style Switcher To Switch To High Contrast
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL13>
    (Silverlight)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.4.6

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    G156: Using a technology that has commonly-available user agents
    that can change the foreground and background of blocks of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G156>

  *

    Using a higher contrast value for text that is over a patterned
    background (future link)

  *

    Using Unicode text and style sheets instead of images of text
    (future link)

  *

    Using a higher contrast values for lines in diagrams (future link)

  *

    Using greater contrast level for red-black text/background combinations

  *

    Using colors that are composed predominantly of mid spectral
    components for the light and spectral extremes (blue and red
    wavelengths) for the dark

  *

    Using a light pastel background rather than a white background
    behind black text to create sufficient but not extreme contrast
    (future link)

  *

    Making icons using simple line drawings that meet the contrast
    provisions for text (future link)

  *

    Providing sufficient color contrast in graphs and charts (future link)

  *

    Using a 3:1 contrast ratio or higher as the default presentation
    (future link)

  *

    Providing sufficient color contrast for empty text fields (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 1.4.6

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.4.6 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F24: Failure of Success Criterion 1.4.3, 1.4.6 and 1.4.8 due to
    specifying foreground colors without specifying background colors or
    vice versa <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F24>

  *

    F83: Failure of Success Criterion 1.4.3 and 1.4.6 due to using
    background images that do not provide sufficient contrast with
    foreground text (or images of text)
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F83>


      Key Terms

contrast ratio

    (L1 + 0.05) / (L2 + 0.05), where

      *

        L1 is the relative luminance
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#relativeluminancedef>
        of the lighter of the colors, and

      *

        L2 is the relative luminance
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#relativeluminancedef>
        of the darker of the colors.

    /Note 1: /Contrast ratios can range from 1 to 21 (commonly written
    1:1 to 21:1).

    /Note 2: /Because authors do not have control over user settings as
    to how text is rendered (for example font smoothing or
    anti-aliasing), the contrast ratio for text can be evaluated with
    anti-aliasing turned off.

    /Note 3: /For the purpose of Success Criteria 1.4.3 and 1.4.6,
    contrast is measured with respect to the specified background over
    which the text is rendered in normal usage. If no background color
    is specified, then white is assumed.

    /Note 4: /Background color is the specified color of content over
    which the text is to be rendered in normal usage. It is a failure if
    no background color is specified when the text color is specified,
    because the user's default background color is unknown and cannot be
    evaluated for sufficient contrast. For the same reason, it is a
    failure if no text color is specified when a background color is
    specified.

    /Note 5: /When there is a border around the letter, the border can
    add contrast and would be used in calculating the contrast between
    the letter and its background. A narrow border around the letter
    would be used as the letter. A wide border around the letter that
    fills in the inner details of the letters acts as a halo and would
    be considered background.

    /Note 6: /WCAG conformance should be evaluated for color pairs
    specified in the content that an author would expect to appear
    adjacent in typical presentation. Authors need not consider unusual
    presentations, such as color changes made by the user agent, except
    where caused by authors' code.

image of text

    text that has been rendered in a non-text form (e.g., an image) in
    order to achieve a particular visual effect

    /Note: /This does not include text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#textdef> that is
    part of a picture that contains significant other visual content.

    /Example: /A person's name on a nametag in a photograph.

large scale (text)

    with at least 18 point or 14 point bold or font size that would
    yield equivalent size for Chinese, Japanese and Korean (CJK) fonts

    /Note 1: /Fonts with extraordinarily thin strokes or unusual
    features and characteristics that reduce the familiarity of their
    letter forms are harder to read, especially at lower contrast levels.

    /Note 2: /Font size is the size when the content is delivered. It
    does not include resizing that may be done by a user.

    /Note 3: /The actual size of the character that a user sees is
    dependent both on the author-defined size and the user's display or
    user-agent settings. For many mainstream body text fonts, 14 and 18
    point is roughly equivalent to 1.2 and 1.5 em or to 120% or 150% of
    the default size for body text (assuming that the body font is
    100%), but authors would need to check this for the particular fonts
    in use. When fonts are defined in relative units, the actual point
    size is calculated by the user agent for display. The point size
    should be obtained from the user agent, or calculated based on font
    metrics as the user agent does, when evaluating this success
    criterion. Users who have low vision would be responsible for
    choosing appropriate settings.

    /Note 4: /When using text without specifying the font size, the
    smallest font size used on major browsers for unspecified text would
    be a reasonable size to assume for the font. If a level 1 heading is
    rendered in 14pt bold or higher on major browsers, then it would be
    reasonable to assume it is large text. Relative scaling can be
    calculated from the default sizes in a similar fashion.

    /Note 5: /The 18 and 14 point sizes for roman texts are taken from
    the minimum size for large print (14pt) and the larger standard font
    size (18pt). For other fonts such as CJK languages, the "equivalent"
    sizes would be the minimum large print size used for those languages
    and the next larger standard large print size.

pure decoration

    serving only an aesthetic purpose, providing no information, and
    having no functionality

    /Note: /Text is only purely decorative if the words can be
    rearranged or substituted without changing their purpose.

    /Example: /The cover page of a dictionary has random words in very
    light text in the background.

text

    sequence of characters that can be programmatically determined
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#programmaticallydetermineddef>,
    where the sequence is expressing something in human language
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#human-langdef>

user interface component

    a part of the content that is perceived by users as a single control
    for a distinct function

    /Note 1: /Multiple user interface components may be implemented as a
    single programmatic element. Components here is not tied to
    programming techniques, but rather to what the user perceives as
    separate controls.

    /Note 2: /User interface components include form elements and links
    as well as components generated by scripts.

    /Example: /An applet has a "control" that can be used to move
    through content by line or page or random access. Since each of
    these would need to have a name and be settable independently, they
    would each be a "user interface component."

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Low or No Background Audio*:
    Understanding SC 1.4.7

    *1.4.7
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#visual-audio-contrast-noaudio>
    Low or No Background Audio:* For prerecorded
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#prerecordeddef>
    audio-only
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audio-onlydef>
    content that (1) contains primarily speech in the foreground, (2) is
    not an audio CAPTCHA
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#CAPTCHAdef> or audio
    logo, and (3) is not vocalization intended to be primarily musical
    expression such as singing or rapping, at least one of the following
    is true: (Level AAA)

      *

        *No Background: *The audio does not contain background sounds.

      *

        *Turn Off: *The background sounds can be turned off.

      *

        *20 dB: * The background sounds are at least 20 decibels lower
        than the foreground speech content, with the exception of
        occasional sounds that last for only one or two seconds.

        /Note: /Per the definition of "decibel," background sound that
        meets this requirement will be approximately four times quieter
        than the foreground speech content.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that any non-speech
sounds are low enough that a user who is hard of hearing can separate
the speech from background sounds or other noise foreground speech content.

The value of 20 dB was chosen based on Large area assistive listening
systems (ALS): Review and recommendations [LAALS] <#LAALS> and
In-the-ear measurements of interference in hearing aids from digital
wireless telephones [HEARING-AID-INT] <#HEARING-AID-INT>


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.4.7

  *

    People who are hard of hearing often have great difficulty
    separating speech from background sound.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.4.7

(none currently documented)


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    About Decibels <http://trace.wisc.edu/docs/2004-About-dB/index.htm>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.4.7 - Low or No
      Background Audio

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G56: Mixing audio files so that non-speech sounds are at least 20
    decibels lower than the speech audio content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G56>


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.4.7

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Providing a way for users to adjust auditory levels of foreground
    and background sound independently (future link)

  *

    Providing an audio track for synchronized media that includes
    background sounds that are at least 20 decibels lower than speech
    (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 1.4.7

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.4.7 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

CAPTCHA

    initialism for "Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell
    Computers and Humans Apart"

    /Note 1: /CAPTCHA tests often involve asking the user to type in
    text that is displayed in an obscured image or audio file.

    /Note 2: /A Turing test is any system of tests designed to
    differentiate a human from a computer. It is named after famed
    computer scientist Alan Turing. The term was coined by researchers
    at Carnegie Mellon University. [CAPTCHA] <#CAPTCHA>

audio-only

    a time-based presentation that contains only audio
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodef> (no video
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef> and no
    interaction)

prerecorded

    information that is not live
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#livedef>

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Visual Presentation*:
    Understanding SC 1.4.8

    *1.4.8
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#visual-audio-contrast-visual-presentation>
    Visual Presentation:* For the visual presentation of blocks of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#blockstextdef>, a
    mechanism
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#mechanismdef> is
    available to achieve the following: (Level AAA)

     1.

        Foreground and background colors can be selected by the user.

     2.

        Width is no more than 80 characters or glyphs (40 if CJK).

     3.

        Text is not justified (aligned to both the left and the right
        margins).

     4.

        Line spacing (leading) is at least space-and-a-half within
        paragraphs, and paragraph spacing is at least 1.5 times larger
        than the line spacing.

     5.

        Text can be resized without assistive technology up to 200
        percent in a way that does not require the user to scroll
        horizontally to read a line of text on a full-screen window
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#fullscreenwindowdef>.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that visually rendered
text is presented in such a manner that it can be perceived without its
layout interfering with its readability. People with some cognitive,
language and learning disabilities and some low vision users cannot
perceive the text and/or lose their reading place if the text is
presented in a manner that is difficult for them to read.

People with some visual or cognitive disabilities need to be able to
select the color of text and the color of the background. They sometimes
choose combinations that seem unintuitive to someone without that
disability. Sometimes these combinations have very low contrast.
Sometimes only very specific color combinations work for them. Control
of color or other aspects of text presentation makes a huge difference
to their comprehension.

For people with some reading or vision disabilities, long lines of text
can become a significant barrier. They have trouble keeping their place
and following the flow of text. Having a narrow block of text makes it
easier for them to continue on to the next line in a block. Lines should
not exceed 80 characters or glyphs (40 if CJK), where glyphs are the
element of writing in the writing system for the text.. Studies have
shown that Chinese, Japanese and Korean (CJK) characters are
approximately twice as wide as non-CJK characters when both types of
characters are displayed with characteristics that achieve the same
readability, so the maximum line width for CJK characters is half that
of non-CJK characters.

People with some cognitive disabilities find it difficult to track text
where the lines are close together. Providing extra space between lines
and paragraphs allows them to better track the next line and to
recognize when they have reached the end of a paragraph. It is best if
there are several different options, for instance, space-and-a-half and
double spacing for line spacing. By space and a half within paragraphs
we mean that top of one line is 150% further from the top of the line
below it than would be true when the text is 'single spaced' (the
default spacing for the font). By Paragraph spacing that is 1.5 times
larger than the line spacing we mean that the spacing from the top of
the last line of 1 paragraph is 250% farther from the Top of the first
line of the next paragraph (i.e., that there is a blank line between the
two paragraphs that is 150% of the single space blank line).

People with certain cognitive disabilities have problems reading text
that is both left and right justified. The uneven spacing between words
in fully justified text can cause "rivers of white" space to run down
the page making reading difficult and in some cases impossible. Text
justification can also cause words to be spaced closely together, so
that it is difficult for them to locate word boundaries.

The resizing provision ensures that visually rendered text (text
characters that have been displayed so that they can be seen [vs. text
characters that are still in data form such as ASCII]) can be scaled
successfully without requiring that the user scroll left and right to
see all of the content. When the content has been authored so that this
is possible, the content is said to reflow. This permits people with low
vision and people with cognitive disabilities to increase the size of
the text without becoming disoriented.

The scaling of content is primarily a user agent responsibility. User
agents that satisfy UAAG 1.0 Checkpoint 4.1 allow users to configure
text scale. The author's responsibility is to create Web content that
does not prevent the user agent from scaling the content and that allows
the reflow of the content within the current width of the viewport. See
/Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.4 Resize text
<#visual-audio-contrast-scale>/ for additional discussion of resizing text.

The horizontal scrolling requirement is not intended to apply to
small-screen devices where long words may be displayed on a single line
and require users to scroll horizontally. For the purposes of this
requirement, authors should ensure that content meets this requirement
on standard desktop/laptop displays with the browser window maximized.
Since people generally keep their computers for several years, it is
best not to rely on the latest desktop/laptop display resolutions but to
consider the common desktop/laptop display resolutions over the course
of several years when making this evaluation.

Wrapping should always be possible as long as words are not so long that
a single word is more than half the width of a full screen. Very long
URIs may run off the side of an enlarged screen, but they would not be
considered text for "reading" and, therefore, would not violate this
provision.

This provision does not mean that a user would never need to use
horizontal scrolling. It only means that they would not need to use
horizontal scrolling back and forth to read a line of text. For example,
if a page consisted of two equal sized columns of text, it would
automatically meet this provision. Enlarging the page would mean that
the first column was completely on screen and the user could just scroll
vertically down the page to read it. To read the second column, they
would horizontally scroll to the right, where the right hand column
would then fit entirely within the width of the screen, and read that
column without further horizontal scrolling.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.4.8

This Success Criterion helps low vision users by letting them see text
without distracting presentational features. It lets them configure text
in ways that will be easier for them to see by letting them control the
color and size of blocks of text.

This Success Criterion helps people with cognitive, language and
learning disabilities perceive text and track their location within
blocks of text.

  *

    People with some cognitive disabilities can read text better when
    they select their own foreground and background color combinations.

  *

    People with some cognitive disabilities can track their locations
    more easily when blocks of text are narrow and when they can
    configure the amount of space between lines and paragraphs.

  *

    People with some cognitive disabilities can read text more easily
    when the spacing between words is regular.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.4.8

The following images show examples of single-spacing, space-and-a-half
and double-spaced text in a paragraph.

Example of single-spaced text. (no space between each line of
text)Example of space-and-a-half text. (a space equal to half the height
of a line of text line)Example of double-spaced text. (a space equal to
the height of a line of text between each line)

Examples of glyphs include "A", "→" (an arrow symbol), and "さ" (a
Japanese character).


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    CSS 2 Box Model <http://www.w3.org/TR/CSS2/box.html>

  *

    CSS 2 Visual formatting Model <http://www.w3.org/TR/CSS2/visuren.html>

  *

    CSS 2 Visual formatting Model Details
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/CSS2/visudet.html>

  *

    About fluid and fixed width layouts
    <http://www.456bereastreet.com/archive/200504/about_fluid_and_fixed_width_layouts/>


  *

    Accessible CSS
    <http://cookiecrook.com/AIR/2003/train/accessiblecss.php>

  *

    Ideal line length for content
    <http://www.maxdesign.com.au/articles/em/>

  *

    Developing sites for users with Cognitive disabilities and learning
    difficulties <http://juicystudio.com/article/cognitive-impairment.php>

  *

    RDFA Primer <http://www.w3.org/TR/2007/WD-xhtml-rdfa-primer-20071026/>

  *

    MULTIFUNK: Bringing computer-supported reading one step further
    <http://oldwww.nr.no/dart/multifunk/Multifunk-NR-rapport.pdf>, Date:
    April 2002, ISBN: 82-539-0491-6, Author: Gjertrud W. Kamstrup, Eva
    Mjøvik, Anne-Lise Rygvold og Bjørn Gunnar Saltnes

  *

    ERIC Web portal
    <http://www.eric.ed.gov/ERICWebPortal/search/detailmini.jsp?_nfpb=true&_&ERICExtSearch_SearchValue_0=EJ601947&ERICExtSearch_SearchType_0=eric_accno&accno=EJ601947>


  *

    Cognitive difficulties and access to information systems - an
    interaction design perspective
    <http://www.sigaccess.org/community/newsletter/september_2005/sep05_10.php>",
    Peter Gregor and Anna Dickinson, Applied Computing, University of
    Dundee

  *

    "Case Study of a Dyslexic Person's Visual Perceptual Problems: A
    Fizz Effect <http://www.engsc.ac.uk/downloads/Disability/fizz.pdf>",
    Nigel Beauchamp, IMPACT Research Group, Computer Science,
    Loughborough University

  *

    "A Dyslexic Perspective on e-Content Accessibility
    <http://www.techdis.ac.uk/resources/files/dyslexia.doc>" Peter
    Rainger, Date of Publication: 20/01/03

  *

    Legge, G.E., Pelli, D.G., Rubin, G.S., & Schleske,
    M.M.:Psychophysics of reading. I. Normal Vision,Vision Research, 25,
    239-252, 1985.

  *

    Legge, G.E., Rubin, G.S., Pelli, D.G., & Schleske,
    M.M.:Psychophysics of reading. II. Low Vision,Vision Research, 25,
    253-266, 1985.

  *

    Osaka,N. and Oda, K. (1991). Effective visual field size necessary
    for vertical reading during Japanese text processing. Bulletin of
    Psychonomic Society,29(4),345-347.

  *

    Beckmann, P.J. & Legge, G.E. (1996). Psychophysics of reading. XIV.
    The page-navigation problem in using magnifiers. Vision Research,
    36, 3723-3733.

  *

    川嶋英嗣・小田浩一(2003).読書におけるスクロール方向とウィンドウ幅の
    影響　日本心理学会第67回大会, 502.

  *

    小田浩一・今橋真理子(1995). 文字認知の閾値と読みの閾値. VISION, 7,
    165-168.

  *

    Osaka,N. (1994). Size of saccade and fixation duration of eye
    movements during reading: psychophysics of Japanese text processing.
    Journal of Optical Society of America A, 9(1), 5-13.

  *

    山中今日子・小田浩一 (2007). 漢字の画数と書体のウェイトが視認性に及
    ぼす 影響. 視覚学会2007年夏季大会ポスター 1p1 Vision, P.167.

  *

    Line Length, Volume, and Density <http://paul-m-jones.com/archives/276>

  *

    The Forgotten People: Designing for Cognitive Disability
    <http://www.thepickards.co.uk/index.php/200607/the-forgotten-people-designing-for-cognitive-disability/>


  *

    Guidance on accessible publishing
    <http://odi.dwp.gov.uk/inclusive-communications/channels/publishing.php>


  *

    An Accessibility Frontier: Cognitive disabilities and learning
    difficulties <http://usability.com.au/resources/cognitive.cfm>

  *

    Cognitive/Perceptual Difference And Good Web Design
    <http://leftbrainrightbrain.co.uk/2005/03/cognitiveperceptual-difference-and-good-web-design/>


  *

    6 Surprising Bad Practices That Hurt Dyslexic Users
    <http://uxmovement.com/content/6-surprising-bad-practices-that-hurt-dyslexic-users/>

  *

    Design for Dyslexics
    <http://accessites.org/site/2006/11/designing-for-dyslexics-part-3-of-3>

  *

    Typefaces for Dyslexia <http://www.dyslexic.com/fonts>

  *

    Web Design for Dyslexia <http://www.dyslexia.com/library/webdesign.htm>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.4.8 - Visual
      Presentation

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

*Instructions: * Since this is a multi-part success criterion, you must
satisfy one of the numbered items for each of the requirements below.


          First Requirement: Techniques to ensure foreground and
          background colors can be selected by the user

 1.

    C23: Specifying text and background colors of secondary content such
    as banners, features and navigation in CSS while not specifying text
    and background colors of the main content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C23> (CSS) OR

 2.

    C25: Specifying borders and layout in CSS to delineate areas of a
    Web page while not specifying text and text-background colors
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C25> (CSS) OR

 3.

    G156: Using a technology that has commonly-available user agents
    that can change the foreground and background of blocks of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G156> OR

 4.

    G148: Not specifying background color, not specifying text color,
    and not using technology features that change those defaults
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G148> OR

 5.

    G175: Providing a multi color selection tool on the page for
    foreground and background colors
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G175>


          Second Requirement: Techniques to ensure width is no more than
          80 characters or glyphs (40 if CJK)

 1.

    H87: Not interfering with the user agent's reflow of text as the
    viewing window is narrowed
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/H87> (HTML) OR

 2.

    C20: Using relative measurements to set column widths so that lines
    can average 80 characters or less when the browser is resized
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C20> (CSS)


          Third Requirement: Techniques to ensure text is not justified
          (aligned to both the left and the right margins)

 1.

    C19: Specifying alignment either to the left OR right in CSS
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C19> (CSS) OR

 2.

    G172: Providing a mechanism to remove full justification of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G172> OR

 3.

    G169: Aligning text on only one side
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G169>


          Fourth Requirement: Techniques to ensure line spacing
          (leading) is at least space-and-a-half within paragraphs, and
          paragraph spacing is at least 1.5 times larger than the line
          spacing

 1.

    G188: Providing a button on the page to increase line spaces and
    paragraph spaces
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G188> OR

 2.

    C21: Specifying line spacing in CSS
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C21> (CSS)


          Fifth Requirement: Techniques to ensure text can be resized
          without assistive technology up to 200 percent in a way that
          does not require the user to scroll horizontally to read a
          line of text on a full-screen window

 1.

    Not interfering with the user agent's reflow of text as the viewing
    window is narrowed (General, Future Link) OR

 2.

    G146: Using liquid layout
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G146> /AND/
    using measurements that are relative to other measurements in the
    content by using one or more of the following techniques:

      *

        C12: Using percent for font sizes
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C12> (CSS) OR

      *

        C13: Using named font sizes
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C13> (CSS) OR

      *

        C14: Using em units for font sizes
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C14> (CSS) OR

      *

        C24: Using percentage values in CSS for container sizes
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C24> (CSS) OR

      *

        FLASH33: Using relative values for Flash object dimensions
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/FLASH33>
        (Flash)

      *

        SCR34: Calculating size and position in a way that scales with
        text size
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SCR34>
        (Scripting) OR

 3.

    C26: Providing options within the content to switch to a layout that
    does not require the user to scroll horizontally to read a line of
    text <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C26> (CSS)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.4.8

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Using a hover effect to highlight a paragraph, list items, or table
    cells (CSS) (future link)

  *

    Presenting text in sans serif font or providing a mechanism to
    achieve this (CSS) (future link)

  *

    Using vertical (bulleted or numbered) lists rather than inline lists
    (future link)

  *

    Using upper and lower case according to the spelling conventions of
    the text language (future link)

  *

    Providing large fonts by default (future link)

  *

    Avoiding the use of text in raster images (future link)

  *

    Avoiding scaling font sizes smaller than the user-agent default
    (future link)

  *

    Providing sufficient inter-column spacing (future link)

  *

    Avoiding centrally aligned text (future link)

  *

    Avoiding chunks of italic text (future link)

  *

    Avoiding overuse of different styles on individual pages and in
    sites (future link)

  *

    Making links visually distinct (future link)

  *

    Providing expandable bullets (future link)

  *

    Show/hide bullet points (future link)

  *

    Putting an em-space or two spaces after sentences (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 1.4.8

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.4.8 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F24: Failure of Success Criterion 1.4.3, 1.4.6 and 1.4.8 due to
    specifying foreground colors without specifying background colors or
    vice versa <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F24>

  *

    F88: Failure of Success Criterion 1.4.8 due to using text that is
    justified (aligned to both the left and the right margins)
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/F88>


      Key Terms

blocks of text

    more than one sentence of text

mechanism

    process <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#processdef>
    or technique for achieving a result

    /Note 1: /The mechanism may be explicitly provided in the content,
    or may be relied upon
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#reliedupondef> to be
    provided by either the platform or by user agents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>,
    including assistive technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#atdef>.

    /Note 2: /The mechanism needs to meet all success criteria for the
    conformance level claimed.

on a full-screen window

    on the most common sized desktop/laptop display with the viewport
    maximized

    /Note: /Since people generally keep their computers for several
    years, it is best not to rely on the latest desktop/laptop display
    resolutions but to consider the common desktop/laptop display
    resolutions over the course of several years when making this
    evaluation.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Images of Text (No Exception)*:
    Understanding SC 1.4.9

    *1.4.9
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#visual-audio-contrast-text-images>
    Images of Text (No Exception):* Images of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#images-of-textdef>
    are only used for pure decoration
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#puredecdef> or where
    a particular presentation of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#textdef> is
    essential
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#essentialdef> to the
    information being conveyed. (Level AAA)

    /Note: /Logotypes (text that is part of a logo or brand name) are
    considered essential.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to enable people who require a
particular visual presentation of text to be able to adjust the text
presentation as required. This includes people who require the text in a
particular font size, foreground and background color, font family, line
spacing or alignment.

This means implementing the text in a manner that allows its
presentation to be changed or providing a mechanism by which users can
select an alternate presentation. Using images of text is an example of
an implementation that does not allow users to alter the presentation of
the text within it.

In some situations, a particular visual presentation of the text is
essential to the information being conveyed. This means that information
would be lost without that particular visual presentation. In this case
implementing the text in a manner that allows its presentation to be
changed is not required. This includes text that demonstrates a
particular visual aspect of the text, such as a particular font family,
or text that conveys an identity, such as text within a company logo.

Text that is decorative does not require implementing the text in a
manner that allows its presentation to be changed.

The definition of image of text contains the note: "Note: This does not
include text that is part of a picture that contains significant other
visual content." Examples of such pictures include graphs, screenshots,
and diagrams which visually convey important information through more
than just text.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.4.9

  *

    People with low vision (who may have trouble reading the text with
    the authored font family, size and/or color).

  *

    People with visual tracking problems (who may have trouble reading
    the text with the authored line spacing and/or alignment).

  *

    People with cognitive disabilities that affect reading.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.4.9

  *

    *A quote*

    A Web page contains a quote. The quote itself is presented as
    italicized text, indented from the left margin. The name of the
    person to whom the quote is attributed is below the quote with 1.5x
    the line space and further indented from the left margin. CSS is
    used to position the text; set the spacing between lines; as well as
    display the text's font family, size, color and decoration.

  *

    *Navigation items*

    A Web page contains a menu of navigation links that have both an
    icon and text to describe their target. CSS is used to display the
    text's font family, size and foreground and background colors; as
    well as the spacing between the navigation links.

  *

    *A logo containing text*

    A Web site contains the organization's logo in the top left corner
    of each Web page. The logo contains logotype (text as part, or all,
    of the logo). The visual presentation of the text is essential to
    the identity of the logo and is included as a gif image which does
    not allow the text characteristics to be changed. The image has a
    text alternative.

  *

    *Representation of a font family*

    A Web page contains information about a particular font family.
    Substituting the font family with another font would defeat the
    purpose of the representation. The representation is included as a
    jpeg image which does not allow the text characteristics to be
    changed. The image has a text alternative.

  *

    *A representation of a letter*

    A Web page contains a representation of an original letter. The
    depiction of the letter in its original format is essential to
    information being conveyed about the time period in which it was
    written. The letter is included as a gif image which does not allow
    the text characteristics to be changed. The image has a text
    alternative.

  *

    *Symbolic text characters*

    A form allows users to enter blocks of text. The form provides a
    number of buttons, including functions to style the text and check
    spelling. Some of the buttons use text characters that do not form a
    sequence that expresses something in human language. For example "B"
    to increase font weight, "I" to italicize the text and "ABC" to
    check the spelling. The symbolic text characters are included as gif
    images which do not allow the text characteristics to be changed.
    The buttons have text alternatives.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    CSS Web fonts <http://www.alistapart.com/articles/cssatten>

  *

    Weblog comments: WebKit now supports CSS @font-face rules
    <http://clagnut.com/blog/2042/>

  *

    Creating Cross Browser Compatible CSS Text Shadows
    <http://www.workingwith.me.uk/articles/css/cross-browser-drop-shadows>

  *

    CSS and text <http://www.yourhtmlsource.com/stylesheets/csstext.html>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.4.9 - Images of
      Text (No Exception)

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. The techniques listed only satisfy the Success
Criterion if all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-reqs> have
been met.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    C22: Using CSS to control visual presentation of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C22> (CSS)

 2.

    SL31: Using Silverlight Font Properties to Control Text Presentation
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/SL31>
    (Silverlight)

 3.

    C30: Using CSS to replace text with images of text and providing
    user interface controls to switch
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C30> (CSS)

 4.

    G140: Separating information and structure from presentation to
    enable different presentations
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/G140>

 5.

    PDF7: Performing OCR on a scanned PDF document to provide actual
    text <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/PDF7> (PDF)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.4.9

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.


          General Techniques for Non-Decorative Content

  *

    Using server-side scripts to resize images of text (future link)


          CSS Techniques

  *

    C12: Using percent for font sizes
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C12> (CSS)

  *

    C13: Using named font sizes
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C13> (CSS)

  *

    C14: Using em units for font sizes
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C14> (CSS)

  *

    C8: Using CSS letter-spacing to control spacing within a word
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C8> (CSS)

  *

    C6: Positioning content based on structural markup
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2012/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20120103/C6> (CSS)

  *

    Avoid applying text styling to text characters within a word (future
    link)


        Common Failures for SC 1.4.9

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.4.9 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

essential

    if removed, would fundamentally change the information or
    functionality of the content, *and* information and functionality
    cannot be achieved in another way that would conform

image of text

    text that has been rendered in a non-text form (e.g., an image) in
    order to achieve a particular visual effect

    /Note: /This does not include text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#textdef> that is
    part of a picture that contains significant other visual content.

    /Example: /A person's name on a nametag in a photograph.

pure decoration

    serving only an aesthetic purpose, providing no information, and
    having no functionality

    /Note: /Text is only purely decorative if the words can be
    rearranged or substituted without changing their purpose.

    /Example: /The cover page of a dictionary has random words in very
    light text in the background.

text

    sequence of characters that can be programmatically determined
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#programmaticallydetermineddef>,
    where the sequence is expressing something in human language
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#human-langdef>
