W3C

<http://www.w3.org/>


  Understanding WCAG 2.0


    A guide to understanding and implementing Web Content Accessibility
    Guidelines 2.0


    W3C Working Group Note 17 March 2016

This version:
    http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/ 
Latest version:
    http://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/
Previous version:
    http://www.w3.org/TR/2015/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20150226/ 
Editors:
    Michael Cooper, W3C
    Andrew Kirkpatrick, Adobe Systems Inc.
    Joshue O Connor, InterAccess
Previous Editors:
    Loretta Guarino Reid (until May 2013 while at Google, Inc.)
    Gregg Vanderheiden (until May 2013 while at Trace R&D Center,
    University of Wisconsin-Madison)
    Ben Caldwell (until September 2010 while at Trace R&D Center,
    University of Wisconsin-Madison)
    Wendy Chisholm (until July 2006 while at W3C)
    John Slatin (until June 2006 while at Accessibility Institute,
    University of Texas at Austin)

This document is also available in these non-normative formats:

  * Single file version
    <https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/complete.html>
  * Single file diff-marked version showing revisions since 26 February
    2015
    <https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/complete-diff.html>, and 
  * Alternate Versions of Understanding WCAG 2.0
    <https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG20/versions/understanding/>, 

Copyright <http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/ipr-notice#Copyright> ©
2016 W3C <http://www.w3.org/>^® (MIT <http://www.csail.mit.edu/>, ERCIM
<http://www.ercim.eu/>, Keio <http://www.keio.ac.jp/>, Beihang
<http://ev.buaa.edu.cn/>). W3C liability
<http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/ipr-notice#Legal_Disclaimer>,
trademark <http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/ipr-notice#W3C_Trademarks>
and document use
<http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/copyright-documents> rules apply.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    Abstract

This document, "Understanding WCAG 2.0," is an essential guide to
understanding and using Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0
<http://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20/> [WCAG20] <#WCAG20>. It is part of a
series of documents that support WCAG 2.0. Please note that the contents
of this document are informative (they provide guidance), and not
normative (they do not set requirements for conforming to WCAG 2.0). See
Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) Overview
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/intro/wcag.php> for an introduction to WCAG,
supporting technical documents, and educational material.

WCAG 2.0 establishes a set of Success Criteria to define conformance to
the WCAG 2.0 Guidelines. A Success Criterion is a testable statement
that will be either true or false when applied to specific Web content.
"Understanding WCAG 2.0" provides detailed information about each
Success Criterion, including its intent, the key terms that are used in
the Success Criterion, and how the Success Criteria in WCAG 2.0 help
people with different types of disabilities. This document also provides
examples of Web content that meet the success criterion using various
Web technologies (for instance, HTML, CSS, XML), and common examples of
Web content that does not meet the success criterion.

This document indicates specific techniques to meet each Success
Criterion. Details for how to implement each technique are available in
Techniques for WCAG 2.0 <http://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20-TECHS/>, but
"Understanding WCAG 2.0" provides the information about the relationship
of each technique to the Success Criteria. Techniques are categorized by
the level of support they provide for the Success Criteria. "Sufficient
techniques" are /sufficient/ to meet a particular Success Criterion
(either by themselves or in combination with other techniques), while
other techniques are advisory and therefore optional. None of the
techniques are /required/ to meet WCAG 2.0, although some may be the
only known method if a particular technology is used. "Advisory
techniques" are not sufficient to meet the Success Criteria on their own
(because they are not testable or provide incomplete support) but it is
encouraged that authors follow them when possible to provide enhanced
accessibility.

In addition to techniques for addressing the success criteria, "Common
Failures" are also documented. These "Common Failures" are authoring
practices that are known to cause Web content to fail to conform to WCAG
2.0. Authors must avoid those practices in order to meet the WCAG 2.0
Success Criteria.

This document is part of a series of documents published by the W3C Web
Accessibility Initiative (WAI) to support WCAG 2.0. This document was
published as a Working Group Note at the same time WCAG 2.0 was
published as a W3C Recommendation. Unlike WCAG 2.0, is expected that the
information in Understanding WCAG 2.0 will be updated from time to time.
See Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) Overview
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/intro/wcag.php> for an introduction to WCAG,
supporting technical documents, and educational material.


    Status of This Document

/This section describes the status of this document at the time of its
publication. Other documents may supersede this document. A list of
current W3C publications and the latest revision of this technical
report can be found in the W3C technical reports index
<http://www.w3.org/TR/> at http://www.w3.org/TR/./

This is a Working Group Note "Understanding WCAG 2.0". The Web Content
Accessibility Guidelines Working Group <http://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/>
considers this document to be important for understanding the success
criteria in the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0
Recommendation <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/>. Please
note that the contents of this document are informative (they provide
guidance), and not normative (they do not set requirements for
conforming to WCAG 2.0).

Understanding WCAG 2.0 was previously published on 11 December 2008 as a
Working Group Note and updated 14 October 2010, 3 January 2012, 5
September 2013, 3 March 2014, 8 April 2014, 16 September 2014, and 26
February 2015. This new version updates the support information provided
for WCAG 2.0. Note that WCAG 2.0 itself remains unchanged, only the
informative support materials have been updated. The only change in this
version is to add explanation about partial conformance claims due to
third-party content
<https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/conformance.html#uc-partial-third-head>.

The changes are highlighted in the diff-marked version
<https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/complete-diff>.

The Working Group requests that any comments be made using the options
documented in Instructions for Commenting on WCAG 2.0 Documents
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG20/comments/>. If this is not possible,
comments can also be sent to public-comments-wcag20@w3.org
<mailto:public-comments-wcag20@w3.org>. The archives for the public
comments list
<http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-comments-wcag20/> are
publicly available. Comments received on this document may be addressed
in future versions of this document, or in another manner. Archives of
the WCAG WG mailing list discussions
<http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-gl/> are also publicly
available, and future work undertaken by the Working Group may address
comments received on this document.

This document has been produced as part of the W3C Web Accessibility
Initiative <http://www.w3.org/WAI/> (WAI). The goals of the WCAG Working
Group are discussed in the WCAG Working Group charter
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/charter>. The WCAG Working Group is part of
the WAI Technical Activity <http://www.w3.org/WAI/Technical/Activity>.

Publication as a Working Group Note does not imply endorsement by the
W3C Membership. This is a draft document and may be updated, replaced or
obsoleted by other documents at any time. It is inappropriate to cite
this document as other than work in progress.

This document was produced by a group operating under the 5 February
2004 W3C Patent Policy
<http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Patent-Policy-20040205/>. W3C maintains a
public list of any patent disclosures
<http://www.w3.org/2004/01/pp-impl/35422/status> made in connection with
the deliverables of the group; that page also includes instructions for
disclosing a patent. An individual who has actual knowledge of a patent
which the individual believes contains Essential Claim(s)
<http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Patent-Policy-20040205/#def-essential>
must disclose the information in accordance with section 6 of the W3C
Patent Policy
<http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Patent-Policy-20040205/#sec-Disclosure>.

This document is governed by the 1 September 2015 W3C Process Document
<http://www.w3.org/2015/Process-20150901/>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    Table of Contents

  * Abstract

    <#abstract>
  * Status of This Document

    <#status>
  * Introduction to Understanding WCAG 2.0

    <#intro>
  * Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria

    <#understanding-techniques>
  * Understanding Guideline 1.1 [Text Alternatives]

    <#text-equiv>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.1.1 [Non-text Content]

        <#text-equiv-all>
  * Understanding Guideline 1.2 [Time-based Media]

    <#media-equiv>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.2.1 [Audio-only and Video-only
        (Prerecorded)]

        <#media-equiv-av-only-alt>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.2.2 [Captions (Prerecorded)]

        <#media-equiv-captions>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.2.3 [Audio Description or
        Media Alternative (Prerecorded)]

        <#media-equiv-audio-desc>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.2.4 [Captions (Live)]

        <#media-equiv-real-time-captions>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.2.5 [Audio Description
        (Prerecorded)]

        <#media-equiv-audio-desc-only>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.2.6 [Sign Language (Prerecorded)]

        <#media-equiv-sign>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.2.7 [Extended Audio
        Description (Prerecorded)]

        <#media-equiv-extended-ad>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.2.8 [Media Alternative
        (Prerecorded)]

        <#media-equiv-text-doc>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.2.9 [Audio-only (Live)]

        <#media-equiv-live-audio-only>
  * Understanding Guideline 1.3 [Adaptable]

    <#content-structure-separation>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.3.1 [Info and Relationships]

        <#content-structure-separation-programmatic>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.3.2 [Meaningful Sequence]

        <#content-structure-separation-sequence>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.3.3 [Sensory Characteristics]

        <#content-structure-separation-understanding>
  * Understanding Guideline 1.4 [Distinguishable]

    <#visual-audio-contrast>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.1 [Use of Color]

        <#visual-audio-contrast-without-color>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.2 [Audio Control]

        <#visual-audio-contrast-dis-audio>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.3 [Contrast (Minimum)]

        <#visual-audio-contrast-contrast>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.4 [Resize text]

        <#visual-audio-contrast-scale>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.5 [Images of Text]

        <#visual-audio-contrast-text-presentation>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.6 [Contrast (Enhanced)]

        <#visual-audio-contrast7>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.7 [Low or No Background Audio]

        <#visual-audio-contrast-noaudio>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.8 [Visual Presentation]

        <#visual-audio-contrast-visual-presentation>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.9 [Images of Text (No
        Exception)]

        <#visual-audio-contrast-text-images>
  * Understanding Guideline 2.1 [Keyboard Accessible]

    <#keyboard-operation>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.1.1 [Keyboard]

        <#keyboard-operation-keyboard-operable>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.1.2 [No Keyboard Trap]

        <#keyboard-operation-trapping>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.1.3 [Keyboard (No Exception)]

        <#keyboard-operation-all-funcs>
  * Understanding Guideline 2.2 [Enough Time]

    <#time-limits>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.2.1 [Timing Adjustable]

        <#time-limits-required-behaviors>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.2.2 [Pause, Stop, Hide]

        <#time-limits-pause>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.2.3 [No Timing]

        <#time-limits-no-exceptions>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.2.4 [Interruptions]

        <#time-limits-postponed>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.2.5 [Re-authenticating]

        <#time-limits-server-timeout>
  * Understanding Guideline 2.3 [Seizures]

    <#seizure>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.3.1 [Three Flashes or Below
        Threshold]

        <#seizure-does-not-violate>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.3.2 [Three Flashes]

        <#seizure-three-times>
  * Understanding Guideline 2.4 [Navigable]

    <#navigation-mechanisms>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.4.1 [Bypass Blocks]

        <#navigation-mechanisms-skip>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.4.2 [Page Titled]

        <#navigation-mechanisms-title>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.4.3 [Focus Order]

        <#navigation-mechanisms-focus-order>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.4.4 [Link Purpose (In Context)]

        <#navigation-mechanisms-refs>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.4.5 [Multiple Ways]

        <#navigation-mechanisms-mult-loc>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.4.6 [Headings and Labels]

        <#navigation-mechanisms-descriptive>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.4.7 [Focus Visible]

        <#navigation-mechanisms-focus-visible>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.4.8 [Location]

        <#navigation-mechanisms-location>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.4.9 [Link Purpose (Link Only)]

        <#navigation-mechanisms-link>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.4.10 [Section Headings]

        <#navigation-mechanisms-headings>
  * Understanding Guideline 3.1 [Readable]

    <#meaning>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 3.1.1 [Language of Page]

        <#meaning-doc-lang-id>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 3.1.2 [Language of Parts]

        <#meaning-other-lang-id>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 3.1.3 [Unusual Words]

        <#meaning-idioms>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 3.1.4 [Abbreviations]

        <#meaning-located>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 3.1.5 [Reading Level]

        <#meaning-supplements>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 3.1.6 [Pronunciation]

        <#meaning-pronunciation>
  * Understanding Guideline 3.2 [Predictable]

    <#consistent-behavior>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 3.2.1 [On Focus]

        <#consistent-behavior-receive-focus>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 3.2.2 [On Input]

        <#consistent-behavior-unpredictable-change>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 3.2.3 [Consistent Navigation]

        <#consistent-behavior-consistent-locations>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 3.2.4 [Consistent Identification]

        <#consistent-behavior-consistent-functionality>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 3.2.5 [Change on Request]

        <#consistent-behavior-no-extreme-changes-context>
  * Understanding Guideline 3.3 [Input Assistance]

    <#minimize-error>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 3.3.1 [Error Identification]

        <#minimize-error-identified>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 3.3.2 [Labels or Instructions]

        <#minimize-error-cues>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 3.3.3 [Error Suggestion]

        <#minimize-error-suggestions>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 3.3.4 [Error Prevention (Legal,
        Financial, Data)]

        <#minimize-error-reversible>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 3.3.5 [Help]

        <#minimize-error-context-help>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 3.3.6 [Error Prevention (All)]

        <#minimize-error-reversible-all>
  * Understanding Guideline 4.1 [Compatible]

    <#ensure-compat>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 4.1.1 [Parsing]

        <#ensure-compat-parses>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 4.1.2 [Name, Role, Value]

        <#ensure-compat-rsv>
  * Understanding Conformance

    <#conformance>


      Appendices

  * Appendix A How to refer to WCAG 2.0 from other documents

    <#conformance-referencing>
  * Appendix B Documenting Accessibility Support for Uses of a Web
    Technology

    <#accessibility-support-documenting>
  * Appendix C Understanding Metadata

    <#understanding-metadata>
  * Appendix D Acknowledgements

    <#acknowledgements>
  * Appendix E References

    <#references>

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    Introduction to Understanding WCAG 2.0

Understanding WCAG 2.0 is an essential guide to understanding and using
"Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0" [WCAG20] <#WCAG20> Although
the normative definition and requirements for WCAG 2.0 can all be found
in the WCAG 2.0 document itself, the concepts and provisions may be new
to some people. Understanding WCAG 2.0 provides a non-normative extended
commentary on each guideline and each Success Criterion to help readers
better understand the intent and how the guidelines and Success Criteria
work together. It also provides examples of techniques or combinations
of techniques that the Working Group has identified as being sufficient
to meet each Success Criterion. Links are then provided to write-ups for
each of the techniques.

This is not an introductory document. It is a detailed technical
description of the guidelines and their Success Criteria. See Web
Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) Overview
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/intro/wcag.php> for an introduction to WCAG,
supporting technical documents, and educational material.

Understanding WCAG 2.0 is organized by guideline. There is an
/Understanding Guideline X.X/ section for each guideline. The intent and
any advisory techniques that are related to the guideline but not
specifically related to any of its Success Criteria are listed there as
well.

The /Understanding Guidelines X.X/ section is then followed by a
/Understanding Success Criterion X.X.X/ section for each Success
Criterion of that guideline. These sections each contain:

  *

    The Success Criterion as it appears in WCAG 2.0

  *

    Intent of the Success Criterion

  *

    Benefits (how the Success Criterion helps people with disabilities)

  *

    Examples

  *

    Related Resources

  *

    Techniques or combinations of techniques that are sufficient to meet
    the guidelines

  *

    Common failures of this Success Criterion

  *

    Additional advisory techniques that go beyond what is required to
    meet the Success Criterion but can be used to make some or all types
    of content more accessible. Use of advisory techniques does not
    impact the level of conformance claimed.

  *

    Key terms for this Success Criterion (taken from the WCAG 2.0 Glossary)

Links are provided from each Guideline in WCAG 2.0 directly to each
/Understanding Guideline X.X/ in this document. Similarly, there is a
link from each Success Criterion in WCAG 2.0 to the /Understanding
Success Criterion X.X.X/ section in this document.

For information about individual techniques, follow the links throughout
this document to the techniques of interest in the Techniques for WCAG
2.0 <https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20-TECHS/> document.

For links to information on different disabilities and assistive
technologies see Disabilities on Wikipedia
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disability>.


      Understanding the Four Principles of Accessibility

The guidelines and Success Criteria are organized around the following
four principles, which lay the foundation necessary for anyone to access
and use Web content. Anyone who wants to use the Web must have content
that is:

 1.

    Perceivable - Information and user interface components must be
    presentable to users in ways they can perceive.

      *

        This means that users must be able to perceive the information
        being presented (it can't be invisible to all of their senses)

 2.

    Operable - User interface components and navigation must be operable.

      *

        This means that users must be able to operate the interface (the
        interface cannot require interaction that a user cannot perform)

 3.

    Understandable - Information and the operation of user interface
    must be understandable.

      *

        This means that users must be able to understand the information
        as well as the operation of the user interface (the content or
        operation cannot be beyond their understanding)

 4.

    Robust - Content must be robust enough that it can be interpreted
    reliably by a wide variety of user agents, including assistive
    technologies.

      *

        This means that users must be able to access the content as
        technologies advance (as technologies and user agents evolve,
        the content should remain accessible)

If any of these are not true, users with disabilities will not be able
to use the Web.

Under each of the principles are guidelines and Success Criteria that
help to address these principles for people with disabilities. There are
many general usability guidelines that make content more usable by all
people, including those with disabilities. However, in WCAG 2.0, we only
include those guidelines that address problems particular to people with
disabilities. This includes issues that block access or interfere with
access to the Web more severely for people with disabilities.


      Layers of Guidance


        The Guidelines

Under each principle there is a list of guidelines that address the
principle. There are a total of 12 guidelines. A convenient list of just
the guidelines can be found in the WCAG 2.0 table of contents
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#contents>. One of the
key objectives of the guidelines is to ensure that content is directly
accessible to as many people as possible, and capable of being
re-presented in different forms to match different peoples' sensory,
physical and cognitive abilities.


        Success Criteria

Under each guideline, there are Success Criteria that describe
specifically what must be achieved in order to conform
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformancedef> to this
standard. They are similar to the "checkpoints" in WCAG 1.0. Each
Success Criterion is written as a statement that will be either true or
false when specific Web content is tested against it. The Success
Criteria are written to be technology neutral.

All WCAG 2.0 Success Criteria are written as testable criteria for
objectively determining if content satisfies the Success Criteria. While
some of the testing can be automated using software evaluation programs,
others require human testers for part or all of the test.

Although content may satisfy the Success Criteria, the content may not
always be usable by people with a wide variety of disabilities.
Professional reviews utilizing recognized qualitative heuristics are
important in achieving accessibility for some audiences. In addition,
usability testing is recommended. Usability testing aims to determine
how well people can use the content for its intended purpose.

The content should be tested by those who understand how people with
different types of disabilities use the Web. It is recommended that
users with disabilities be included in test groups when performing human
testing.

Each Success Criterion for a guideline has a link to the section of the
How to Meet document that provides:

  *

    sufficient techniques for meeting the Success Criterion,

  *

    optional advisory techniques, and

  *

    descriptions of the intent of the Success Criteria, including
    benefits, and examples.


        Sufficient Techniques, Advisory Techniques, and Failures

The next section, /Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<#understanding-techniques>/, provides important information about the
techniques.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria

WCAG 2.0 guidelines and success criteria are designed to be broadly
applicable to current and future web technologies, including dynamic
applications, mobile, digital television, etc. They are stable and do
not change.

Specific guidance for authors and evaluators on meeting the WCAG success
criteria is provided in techniques, which include code examples,
resources, and tests. W3C's Techniques for WCAG 2.0
<https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20-TECHS/> document is updated periodically,
about twice per year, to cover more current best practices and changes
in technologies and tools.

The three types of guidance in Techniques for WCAG 2.0
<https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20-TECHS/> are explained below:

  *

    Sufficient techniques

  *

    Advisory techniques

  *

    Failures

Also explained below:

  *

    General and technology-specific techniques - which can be sufficient
    or advisory

  *

    Other techniques - beyond what is in W3C's published document

  *

    Technique tests

  *

    User agent and assistive technology support

  *

    Using the techniques - with important considerations

Understanding Conformance
<http://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/conformance> provides related
information, including on understanding accessibility support
<http://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/conformance#uc-accessibility-support-head>.


      Techniques are Informative

/Techniques are informative—that means they are not required. The basis
for determining conformance to WCAG 2.0 is the success criteria from the
WCAG 2.0 standard—not the techniques./

/Note 1: /W3C cautions against requiring W3C's sufficient techniques.
The only thing that should be required is meeting the WCAG 2.0 success
criteria. To learn more, see:

  *

    What would be the negative consequences of allowing /only/ W3C's
    published techniques to be used for conformance to WCAG 2.0?
    <http://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG20/wcag2faq.html#techsnot> in the WCAG 2 FAQ

/Note 2: / Techniques for WCAG 2.0 <https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20-TECHS/>
uses the words "must" and "should" only to clarify guidance within the
techniques, not to convey requirements for WCAG.


      Sufficient Techniques

/Sufficient techniques/ are reliable ways to meet the success criteria.

  *

    From an author's perspective: If you use the sufficient techniques
    for a given criterion correctly and it is accessibility-supported
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/conformance.html#uc-accessibility-support-head>
    for your users, you can be confident that you met the success criterion.

  *

    From an evaluator's perspective: If web content implements the
    sufficient techniques for a given criterion correctly and it is
    accessibility-supported
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/conformance.html#uc-accessibility-support-head>
    for the content's users, it conforms to that success criterion. (The
    converse is not true; if content does not implement these sufficient
    techniques, it does not necessarily fail the success criteria, as
    explained in Testing Techniques
    <#ut-understanding-techniques-tests-head> below.)

There may be other ways to meet success criteria besides the sufficient
techniques in W3C's Techniques for WCAG 2.0
<https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20-TECHS/> document, as explained in Other
Techniques <#ut-understanding-techniques-othertechs-head> below. /(See
also Techniques are Informative
<#ut-understanding-techniques-informative-head> above.)/


        Numbered Lists, "AND"

The W3C-documented sufficient techniques are provided in a numbered list
where each list item provides a technique or combination of techniques
that can be used to meet the success criterion. Where there are multiple
techniques on a numbered list item connected by "AND" then all of the
techniques must be used to be sufficient. For example, Sufficient
Techniques for 1.3.1
<http://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/complete#content-structure-separation-programmatic-techniques-head>
has: "G115: Using semantic elements to mark up structure AND H49: Using
semantic markup to mark emphasized or special text (HTML)".


      Advisory Techniques

/Advisory techniques/ are suggested ways to improve accessibility. They
are often very helpful to some users, and may be the only way that some
users can access some types of content.

Advisory techniques are not designated as sufficient techniques for
various reasons such as:

  *

    they may not be sufficient to meet the full requirements of the
    success criteria;

  *

    they may be based on technology that is not yet stable;

  *

    they may not be accessibility supported
    <http://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/conformance.html#uc-accessibility-support-head>
    in many cases (for example, assistive technologies do not work with
    them yet);

  *

    they may not be testable;

  *

    in some circumstances they may not be applicable or practical, and
    may even decrease accessibility for some users while increasing it
    for others;

  *

    they may not address the success criterion itself, and instead
    provide related accessibility benefits.

Authors are encouraged to apply all of the techniques where appropriate
to best address the widest range of users' needs.


      Failures

/Failures/ are things that cause accessibility barriers and fail
specific success criteria. The documented /failures/ are useful for:

  *

    Authors to know what to avoid,

  *

    Evaluators to use for checking if content does not meet WCAG success
    criteria.

Content that has a /failure/ does not meet WCAG success criteria, unless
an alternate version is provided without the failure.

If anyone identifies a situation where a documented failure is not
correct, please report the situation as a WCAG comment
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG20/comments/> so that it can be corrected or
deleted as appropriate.


      General and Technology-specific Techniques

/General techniques/ describe basic practices that apply to all
technologies. /Technology-specific techniques/ apply to a specific
technology.

Some success criteria do not have technology-specific techniques and are
covered only with general techniques. Therefore, both the general
techniques and the relevant technology-specific techniques should be
considered.

Publication of techniques for a specific technology does not imply that
the technology can be used in all situations to create content that
meets WCAG 2.0 success criteria and conformance requirements. Developers
need to be aware of the limitations of specific technologies and provide
content in a way that is accessible to people with disabilities.


      Other Techniques

In addition to the techniques in W3C's Techniques for WCAG 2.0
<https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20-TECHS/> document, /there are other ways to
meet WCAG success criteria/. W3C's techniques are not comprehensive and
may not cover newer technologies and situations.

/Web content does not have to use W3C's published techniques in order to
conform to WCAG 2.0./ /(See also Techniques are Informative
<#ut-understanding-techniques-informative-head> above.)/

Content authors can develop different techniques. For example, an author
could develop a technique for HTML5, WAI-ARIA
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/intro/aria>, or other new technology. Other
organizations may develop sets of techniques to meet WCAG 2.0 success
criteria.

Any techniques can be sufficient if:

  *

    they satisfy the success criterion, and

  *

    all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/conformance.html> are met.


        Submitting Techniques

The WCAG Working Group encourages people to submit new techniques so
that they can be considered for inclusion in updates of the Techniques
for WCAG 2.0 <https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20-TECHS/> document. Please
submit techniques for consideration using the Techniques Submission Form
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/WCAG20/TECHS-SUBMIT/>.


      Testing Techniques

Each technique has tests that help:

  *

    authors verify that they implemented the technique properly, and

  *

    evaluators determine if web content meets the technique.

The tests are only for a technique, they are not tests for conformance
to WCAG success criteria.

  *

    Failing a technique test does not necessarily mean failing WCAG,
    because the techniques are discrete (that is, they address one
    specific point) and they are not required.

  *

    Content can meet WCAG success criteria in different ways other than
    W3C's published sufficient techniques.

  *

    Content that passes the sufficient techniques for a specific
    technology does not necessarily meet all WCAG success criteria. Some
    success criteria have only general techniques, not
    technology-specific techniques.

  *

    The content must be accessibility supported
    <http://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/conformance.html#uc-accessibility-support-head>
    for the content's users. Some sufficient techniques require browser,
    assistive technology, or other support that some users might not have.

Thus while the techniques are useful for evaluating content, evaluations
must go beyond just checking the sufficient technique tests in order to
evaluate how content conforms to WCAG success criteria.

/Failures/ are particularly useful for evaluations because they do
indicate non-conformance (unless an alternate version is provided
without the failure).


      User Agent and Assistive Technology Support Notes

Some techniques require that web content users have specific browsers or
assistive technologies in order for the technique to be
accessibility-supported
<http://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/conformance.html#uc-accessibility-support-head>.
The /User Agent and Assistive Technology Support Notes/ sections of
individual techniques include some information to help determine
accessibility support.


        Support Notes Change Over Time

As time passes, the versions of user agents (browsers, etc.) or
assistive technologies listed may not be the current versions. The
Working Group may not update most of these notes as new versions are
released. Authors should test techniques with the user agents and
assistive technologies currently available to their users. See also
Understanding Accessibility Support
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/conformance.html#uc-accessibility-support-head>.


      Using the Techniques

Techniques for WCAG 2.0 <https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20-TECHS/> is not
intended to be used as a stand-alone document. Instead, it is expected
that content authors will usually use How to Meet WCAG 2.0: A
customizable quick reference <http://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG20/quickref/> to
read the WCAG success criteria, and follow links from there to specific
topics in Understanding WCAG 2.0 and to specific techniques.


        Alternatives must meet success criteria

Some techniques describe how to provide alternate ways for users to get
content. For example, G73: Providing a long description in another
location... <http://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20-HTML-TECHS/G73> mentions a
transcript as an alternative for an audio file. Some alternatives must
also conform to WCAG. For example, the transcript itself must meet all
relevant success criteria.


        Example Code

The code examples in the techniques are intended to demonstrate only the
specific point discussed in the technique. They might not demonstrate
best practice for other aspects of accessibility, usability, or coding
not related to the technique. They are not intended to be copied and
used as the basis for developing web content.

Many techniques point to "working examples" that are more robust and may
be appropriate for copying and integrating into web content.

