
------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Keyboard Accessible*:
    Understanding Guideline 2.1

    *Guideline 2.1: * Make all functionality available from a keyboard.


      Intent of Guideline 2.1

If all functionality
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#functiondef> can be
achieved using the keyboard, it can be accomplished by keyboard users,
by speech input (which creates keyboard input), by mouse (using
on-screen keyboards), and by a wide variety of assistive technologies
that create simulated keystrokes as their output. No other input form
has this flexibility or is universally supported and operable by people
with different disabilities, as long as the keyboard input is not
time-dependent.

Note that providing universal keyboard input does not mean that other
types of input should not be supported. Optimized speech input,
optimized mouse/pointer input, etc., are also good. The key is to
provide keyboard input and control as well.

Some devices do not have native keyboards—for example, a PDA or cell
phone. If these devices have a Web browsing capability, however, they
will have some means of generating text or "keystrokes". This guideline
uses the term "keyboard interface
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#keybrd-interfacedef>" to
acknowledge that Web content should be controlled from keystrokes that
may come from a keyboard, keyboard emulator, or other hardware or
software that generates keyboard or text input.


      Advisory Techniques for Guideline 2.1 (not success criteria specific)

Specific techniques for meeting each Success Criterion for this
guideline are listed in the understanding sections for each Success
Criterion (listed below). If there are techniques, however, for
addressing this guideline that do not fall under any of the success
criteria, they are listed here. These techniques are not required or
sufficient for meeting any success criteria, but can make certain types
of Web content more accessible to more people.

  * All advisory techniques for this guideline relate to specific
    success criteria.


    *Keyboard*:
    Understanding SC 2.1.1

    *2.1.1
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#keyboard-operation-keyboard-operable>
    Keyboard:* All functionality
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#functiondef> of the
    content is operable through a keyboard interface
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#keybrd-interfacedef>
    without requiring specific timings for individual keystrokes, except
    where the underlying function requires input that depends on the
    path of the user's movement and not just the endpoints. (Level A)

    /Note 1: /This exception relates to the underlying function, not the
    input technique. For example, if using handwriting to enter text,
    the input technique (handwriting) requires path-dependent input but
    the underlying function (text input) does not.

    /Note 2: /This does not forbid and should not discourage providing
    mouse input or other input methods in addition to keyboard operation.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that, wherever
possible, content can be operated through a keyboard or keyboard
interface (so an alternate keyboard can be used). When content can be
operated through a keyboard or alternate keyboard, it is operable by
people with no vision (who cannot use devices such as mice that require
eye-hand coordination) as well as by people who must use alternate
keyboards or input devices that act as keyboard emulators. Keyboard
emulators include speech input software, sip-and-puff software,
on-screen keyboards, scanning software and a variety of assistive
technologies and alternate keyboards. Individuals with low vision also
may have trouble tracking a pointer and find the use of software much
easier (or only possible) if they can control it from the keyboard.

Examples of "specific timings for individual keystrokes" include
situations where a user would be required to repeat or execute multiple
keystrokes within a short period of time or where a key must be held
down for an extended period before the keystroke is registered.

The phrase "except where the underlying function requires input that
depends on the path of the user's movement and not just the endpoints"
is included to separate those things that cannot reasonably be
controlled from a keyboard.

Most actions carried out by a pointing device can also be done from the
keyboard (for example, clicking, selecting, moving, sizing). However,
there is a small class of input that is done with a pointing device that
cannot be done from the keyboard in any known fashion without requiring
an inordinate number of keystrokes. Free hand drawing, watercolor
painting, and flying a helicopter through an obstacle course are all
examples of functions that require path dependent input. Drawing
straight lines, regular geometric shapes, re-sizing windows and dragging
objects to a location (when the path to that location is not relevant)
do not require path dependent input.

The use of MouseKeys would not satisfy this Success Criterion because it
is not a keyboard equivalent to the application; it is a mouse
equivalent (i.e., it looks like a mouse to the application).

It is assumed that the design of user input features takes into account
that operating system keyboard accessibility features may be in use. For
example, modifier key locking may be turned on. Content continues to
function in such an environment, not sending events that would collide
with the modifier key lock to produce unexpected results.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.1.1

  *

    People who are blind (who cannot use devices such as mice that
    require eye-hand coordination)

  *

    People with low vision (who may have trouble finding or tracking a
    pointer indicator on screen)

  *

    Some people with hand tremors find using a mouse very difficult and
    therefore usually use a keyboard


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.1.1

  *

    *Example 1: A drawing Program.*

    A drawing program allows users to create, size, position and rotate
    objects from the keyboard.

  *

    *Example 2: A drag and Drop Feature.*

    An application that uses drag and drop also supports "cut" and
    "paste" or form controls to move objects.

  *

    *Example 3: Moving between and connecting discrete points.*

    A connect-the-dots program allows the user to move between dots on a
    screen and use the spacebar to connect the current dot to the
    previous one.

  *

    *Example 4: Exception - Painting Program.*

    A watercolor painting program passes as an exception because the
    brush strokes vary depending on the speed and duration of the movements.

  *

    *Example 5: Exception - Model helicopter flight training simulator.*

    A model helicopter flight training simulator passes as an exception
    because the nature of the simulator is to teach real-time behavior
    of a model helicopter.

  *

    *Example 6: A PDA with an optional keyboard*

    A PDA device that is usually operated via a stylus has an optional
    keyboard that can be attached. The keyboard allows full Web browsing
    in standard fashion. The Web content is operable because it was
    designed to work with keyboard-only access.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.1.1 - Keyboard

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G202: Ensuring keyboard control for all functionality
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G202>

 2.

    Ensuring keyboard control by using one of the following techniques.

      *

        H91: Using HTML form controls and links
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H91> (HTML)

      *

        PDF3: Ensuring correct tab and reading order in PDF documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF3> (PDF)

      *

        PDF11: Providing links and link text using the Link annotation
        and the /Link structure element in PDF documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF11> (PDF)

      *

        PDF23: Providing interactive form controls in PDF documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF23> (PDF)

      *

        SL15: Providing Keyboard Shortcuts that Work Across the Entire
        Silverlight Application
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL15>
        (Silverlight)

 3.

    G90: Providing keyboard-triggered event handlers
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G90> using one
    of the following techniques:

      *

        SCR20: Using both keyboard and other device-specific functions
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR20>
        (Scripting)

      *

        SCR35: Making actions keyboard accessible by using the onclick
        event of anchors and buttons
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR35>
        (Scripting)

      *

        SCR2: Using redundant keyboard and mouse event handlers
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR2>
        (Scripting)

      *

        SL9: Handling Key Events to Enable Keyboard Functionality in
        Silverlight
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL9>
        (Silverlight)

      *

        SL14: Providing Custom Control Key Handling for Keyboard
        Functionality in Silverlight
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL14>
        (Silverlight)

 4.

    FLASH17: Providing keyboard access to a Flash object and avoiding a
    keyboard trap
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH17>
    (Flash) *AND* using the following techniques as applicable:

      *

        FLASH22: Adding keyboard-accessible actions to static elements
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH22>
        (Flash)

      *

        FLASH16: Making actions keyboard accessible by using the click
        event on standard components
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH16>
        (Flash)

      *

        FLASH14: Using redundant keyboard and mouse event handlers in
        Flash
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH14>
        (Flash)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.1.1

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Using XHTML role, state, and value attributes if repurposing static
    elements as interactive user interface components (future link) AND
    SCR29: Adding keyboard-accessible actions to static HTML elements
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR29>
    (Scripting)

  *

    Providing keyboard shortcuts to important links and form controls
    (future link)

  *

    Using unique letter combinations to begin each item of a list
    (future link)

  *

    Choosing the most abstract event handler (future link) (Scripting)

  *

    Using the onactivate event (future link) (Scripting)

  *

    Avoiding use of common user-agent keyboard commands for other
    purposes (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 2.1.1

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.1.1 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F54: Failure of Success Criterion 2.1.1 due to using only
    pointing-device-specific event handlers (including gesture) for a
    function <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F54>

  *

    F55: Failure of Success Criteria 2.1.1, 2.4.7, and 3.2.1 due to
    using script to remove focus when focus is received
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F55>

  *

    F42: Failure of Success Criteria 1.3.1, 2.1.1, 2.1.3, or 4.1.2 when
    emulating links
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F42>


      Key Terms

functionality

    processes
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#processdef> and
    outcomes achievable through user action

keyboard interface

    interface used by software to obtain keystroke input

    /Note 1: /A keyboard interface allows users to provide keystroke
    input to programs even if the native technology does not contain a
    keyboard.

    /Example: /A touchscreen PDA has a keyboard interface built into its
    operating system as well as a connector for external keyboards.
    Applications on the PDA can use the interface to obtain keyboard
    input either from an external keyboard or from other applications
    that provide simulated keyboard output, such as handwriting
    interpreters or speech-to-text applications with "keyboard
    emulation" functionality.

    /Note 2: /Operation of the application (or parts of the application)
    through a keyboard-operated mouse emulator, such as MouseKeys, does
    not qualify as operation through a keyboard interface because
    operation of the program is through its pointing device interface,
    not through its keyboard interface.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *No Keyboard Trap*:
    Understanding SC 2.1.2

    *2.1.2
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#keyboard-operation-trapping>
    No Keyboard Trap:* If keyboard focus can be moved to a component of
    the page using a keyboard interface
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#keybrd-interfacedef>, then
    focus can be moved away from that component using only a keyboard
    interface, and, if it requires more than unmodified arrow or tab
    keys or other standard exit methods, the user is advised of the
    method for moving focus away. (Level A)

    /Note: /Since any content that does not meet this success criterion
    can interfere with a user's ability to use the whole page, all
    content on the Web page (whether it is used to meet other success
    criteria or not) must meet this success criterion. See /Conformance
    Requirement 5: Non-Interference
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#cc5>/.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that that content does
not "trap" keyboard focus within subsections of content on a Web page.
This is a common problem when multiple formats are combined within a
page and rendered using plug-ins or embedded applications.

There may be times when the functionality of the Web page restricts the
focus to a subsection of the content, as long as the user knows how to
leave that state and "untrap" the focus.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.1.2

  *

    People who rely on a keyboard or keyboard interface to use the Web
    including people who are blind and people with physical disabilities.


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.1.2

  *

    *A calendar widget*

    A calendar widget allows users to add, remove or update items in
    their calendar using the keyboard. The controls in the widget are
    part of the tab order within the Web page, allowing users to tab
    through the controls in the widget as well as to any links or
    controls that follow.

  *

    *A puzzle applet*

    Once a user tabs into an applet, further tabs and other keystrokes
    are handled by the applet. Instructions describing the keystroke
    used to exit the applet are provided prior to the applet as well as
    within the applet itself.

  *

    *A modal dialog box*

    A Web application brings up a dialog box. At the bottom of the
    dialog are two buttons, Cancel and OK. When the dialog has been
    opened, focus is trapped within the dialog; tabbing from the last
    control in the dialog takes focus to the first control in the
    dialog. The dialog is dismissed by activating the Cancel button or
    the OK button.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.1.2 - No Keyboard Trap

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G21: Ensuring that users are not trapped in content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G21>

 2.

    FLASH17: Providing keyboard access to a Flash object and avoiding a
    keyboard trap
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH17> (Flash)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.1.2

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

(none currently documented)


        Common Failures for SC 2.1.2

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.1.2 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F10: Failure of Success Criterion 2.1.2 and Conformance Requirement
    5 due to combining multiple content formats in a way that traps
    users inside one format type
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F10>


      Key Terms

keyboard interface

    interface used by software to obtain keystroke input

    /Note 1: /A keyboard interface allows users to provide keystroke
    input to programs even if the native technology does not contain a
    keyboard.

    /Example: /A touchscreen PDA has a keyboard interface built into its
    operating system as well as a connector for external keyboards.
    Applications on the PDA can use the interface to obtain keyboard
    input either from an external keyboard or from other applications
    that provide simulated keyboard output, such as handwriting
    interpreters or speech-to-text applications with "keyboard
    emulation" functionality.

    /Note 2: /Operation of the application (or parts of the application)
    through a keyboard-operated mouse emulator, such as MouseKeys, does
    not qualify as operation through a keyboard interface because
    operation of the program is through its pointing device interface,
    not through its keyboard interface.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Keyboard (No Exception)*:
    Understanding SC 2.1.3

    *2.1.3
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#keyboard-operation-all-funcs>
    Keyboard (No Exception):* All functionality
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#functiondef> of the
    content is operable through a keyboard interface
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#keybrd-interfacedef>
    without requiring specific timings for individual keystrokes. (Level
    AAA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that *all* content is
operable from the keyboard. This is the same as Success Criterion 2.1.1,
except that no exceptions are allowed. This does not mean that content
where the underlying function requires input that depends on the path of
the user's movement and not just the endpoints (excluded from the
requirements of 2.1.1) must be made keyboard accessible. Rather, it
means that content that uses path-dependent input cannot conform to this
Success Criterion and therefore cannot meet Guideline 2.1 at Level AAA.


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.1.3

(none currently documented)


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.1.3 - Keyboard (No
      Exception)

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

No additional techniques exist for this Success Criterion. Follow
techniques for Success Criterion 2.1.1
<https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/keyboard-operation-keyboard-operable.html#keyboard-operation-keyboard-operable-techniques-head>.
If that is not possible because there is a requirement for
path-dependent input, then it is not possible to meet this Level AAA
Success Criterion.


      Key Terms

functionality

    processes
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#processdef> and
    outcomes achievable through user action

keyboard interface

    interface used by software to obtain keystroke input

    /Note 1: /A keyboard interface allows users to provide keystroke
    input to programs even if the native technology does not contain a
    keyboard.

    /Example: /A touchscreen PDA has a keyboard interface built into its
    operating system as well as a connector for external keyboards.
    Applications on the PDA can use the interface to obtain keyboard
    input either from an external keyboard or from other applications
    that provide simulated keyboard output, such as handwriting
    interpreters or speech-to-text applications with "keyboard
    emulation" functionality.

    /Note 2: /Operation of the application (or parts of the application)
    through a keyboard-operated mouse emulator, such as MouseKeys, does
    not qualify as operation through a keyboard interface because
    operation of the program is through its pointing device interface,
    not through its keyboard interface.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Enough Time*:
    Understanding Guideline 2.2

    *Guideline 2.2: * Provide users enough time to read and use content.


      Intent of Guideline 2.2

Many users who have disabilities need more time to complete tasks than
the majority of users: they may take longer to physically respond, they
may take longer to read things, they may have low vision and take longer
to find things or to read them, or they may be accessing content through
an assistive technology that requires more time. This guideline focuses
on ensuring that users are able to complete the tasks required by the
content with their own individual response times. The primary approaches
deal with eliminating time constraints or providing users enough
additional time to allow them to complete their tasks. Exceptions are
provided for those cases where this is not possible.


      Advisory Techniques for Guideline 2.2 (not success criteria specific)

Specific techniques for meeting each Success Criterion for this
guideline are listed in the understanding sections for each Success
Criterion (listed below). If there are techniques, however, for
addressing this guideline that do not fall under any of the success
criteria, they are listed here. These techniques are not required or
sufficient for meeting any success criteria, but can make certain types
of Web content more accessible to more people.

  * All advisory techniques for this guideline relate to specific
    success criteria.


    *Timing Adjustable*:
    Understanding SC 2.2.1

    *2.2.1
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#time-limits-required-behaviors>
    Timing Adjustable:* For each time limit that is set by the content,
    at least one of the following is true: (Level A)

      *

        *Turn off: *The user is allowed to turn off the time limit
        before encountering it; or

      *

        *Adjust: *The user is allowed to adjust the time limit before
        encountering it over a wide range that is at least ten times the
        length of the default setting; or

      *

        *Extend: *The user is warned before time expires and given at
        least 20 seconds to extend the time limit with a simple action
        (for example, "press the space bar"), and the user is allowed to
        extend the time limit at least ten times; or

      *

        *Real-time Exception: *The time limit is a required part of a
        real-time event (for example, an auction), and no alternative to
        the time limit is possible; or

      *

        *Essential Exception: *The time limit is essential
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#essentialdef>
        and extending it would invalidate the activity; or

      *

        *20 Hour Exception: *The time limit is longer than 20 hours.

    /Note: /This success criterion helps ensure that users can complete
    tasks without unexpected changes in content or context that are a
    result of a time limit. This success criterion should be considered
    in conjunction with Success Criterion 3.2.1
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#consistent-behavior-receive-focus>,
    which puts limits on changes of content or context as a result of
    user action.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that users with
disabilities are given adequate time to interact with Web content
whenever possible. People with disabilities such as blindness, low
vision, dexterity impairments, and cognitive limitations may require
more time to read content or to perform functions such as filling out
on-line forms. If Web functions are time-dependent, it will be difficult
for some users to perform the required action before a time limit
occurs. This may render the service inaccessible to them. Designing
functions that are not time-dependent will help people with disabilities
succeed at completing these functions. Providing options to disable time
limits, customize the length of time limits, or request more time before
a time limit occurs helps those users who require more time than
expected to successfully complete tasks. These options are listed in the
order that will be most helpful for the user. Disabling time limits is
better than customizing the length of time limits, which is better than
requesting more time before a time limit occurs.

Any process that happens without user initiation after a set time or on
a periodic basis is a time limit. This includes partial or full updates
of content (for example, page refresh), changes to content, or the
expiration of a window of opportunity for a user to react to a request
for input.

It also includes content that is advancing or updating at a rate beyond
the user's ability to read and/or understand it. In other words,
animated, moving or scrolling content introduces a time limit on a users
ability to read content.

In some cases, however, it is not possible to change the time limit (for
example, for an auction or other real-time event) and exceptions are
therefore provided for those cases.

*Notes regarding server time limits*

  *

    Timed server redirects can be found below under Common Failures.

  *

    Non-timed server redirects (e.g., 3xx response codes) are not
    applicable because there is no time limit: they work instantly.

  *

    This Success Criterion applies only to time limits that are set by
    the content itself. For example, if a time limit is included in
    order to address security concerns, it would be considered to have
    been set by the content because it is designed to be part of the
    presentation and interaction experience for that content. Time
    limits set externally to content, such as by the user agent or by
    factors intrinsic to the Internet are not under the author's control
    and not subject to WCAG conformance requirements. Time limits set by
    Web servers should be under the author's/organization's control and
    are covered. (Success Criteria 2.2.3
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#time-limits-no-exceptions>,
    2.2.4
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#time-limits-postponed>
    and 2.2.5
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#time-limits-server-timeout>
    may also apply.)

  *

    Ten times the default was chosen based on clinical experience and
    other guidelines. For example, if 15 seconds is allowed for a user
    to respond and hit a switch, 150 seconds would be sufficient to
    allow almost all users to hit a switch even if they had trouble.

  *

    20 seconds was also based on clinical experience and other
    guidelines. 20 seconds to hit 'any switch' is sufficient for almost
    all users including those with spasticity. Some would fail, but some
    would fail all lengths of time. A reasonable period for requesting
    more time is required since an arbitrarily long time can provide
    security risks to all users, including those with disabilities, for
    some applications. For example, with kiosks or terminals that are
    used for financial transactions, it is quite common for people to
    walk away without signing off. This leaves them vulnerable to those
    walking up behind them. Providing a long period of inactivity before
    asking, and then providing a long period for the person to indicate
    that they are present can leave terminals open for abuse. If there
    is no activity the system should ask if the user is there. It should
    then ask for an indication that a person is there ('hit any key')
    and then wait long enough for almost anyone to respond. For "hit any
    key," 20 seconds would meet this. If the person indicates that they
    are still present, the device should return the user to the exact
    condition that existed before it asked the question.

  *

    20 hours was chosen as an upper limit because it is longer than a
    full waking day.

In cases where timing is not an intrinsic requirement but giving users
control over timed events would invalidate the outcome, a third party
can control the time limits for the user (for example, granting double
time on a test).

See also /Understanding Success Criterion 2.2.3 No Timing
<#time-limits-no-exceptions>/.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.2.1

  *

    People with physical disabilities often need more time to react, to
    type and to complete activities. People with low vision need more
    time to locate things on screen and to read. People who are blind
    and using screen readers may need more time to understand screen
    layouts, to find information and to operate controls. People who
    have cognitive or language limitations need more time to read and to
    understand. People who are deaf and communicate in sign language may
    need more time to read information printed in text (which may be a
    second language for some).

  *

    In circumstances where a sign-language interpreter may be relating
    audio content to a user who is deaf, control over time limits is
    also important.

  *

    People with reading disabilities, cognitive limitations, and
    learning disabilities who may need more time to read or comprehend
    information can have additional time to read the information by
    pausing the content.


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.2.1

  *

    A Web site uses a client side time limit to help protect users who
    may step away from their computer. After a period of inactivity the
    Web page asks if the user needs more time. If it doesn't get a
    response – it times out.

  *

    A Web page has a field that automatically updates with the latest
    headlines in a rotating fashion. There is an interactive control
    that allows the user to extend the length of time between each
    update to as much as ten times the default. The control can be
    operated with either a mouse or a keyboard.

  *

    A Web page includes an animation which includes text that appears
    and disappears throughout. In some cases, the text is scrolling
    across the screen and in others, it is only displayed for a short
    time before it fades into the background. The page includes a pause
    button so that users who have trouble reading the text before it
    disappears can read it.

  *

    In an auction, there is a time limit on the amount of time a user
    has to submit a bid. Since the time limit applies to all users who
    want to bid on a particular item, it would be unfair to extend the
    time limit for any one particular user. Therefore, a time limit is
    required for this type of activity and no extension, adjustment, or
    deactivation of the time limit is required by this Success Criteria.

  *

    An on-line ticket-purchasing site gives the user two minutes to
    confirm a purchase before the seats are returned to the general
    pool. Because tickets on such sites can sell out quickly, holding a
    ticket longer than that may invalidate the nature of the site, so
    this is a case in which the timing is essential and cannot be
    extended without invalidating the activity. However, the site does
    move as much of the process out of the time-critical period as
    possible, for instance allowing users to provide necessary
    information like name, payment method, etc., before entering the
    time-critical stage.

  *

    A ticket-purchasing site allows the user two minutes to confirm
    purchase of selected seats, but warns the user when their time is
    almost out and allows the user to extend this time limit some number
    of times with a simple action such as clicking a "Extend time limit"
    button.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.2.1 - Timing
      Adjustable

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

*Instructions:* Select the situation below that matches your content.
Each situation includes numbered techniques (or combinations of
techniques) that the Working Group deems to be sufficient for that
situation.


          Situation A: If there are session time limits:

 1.

    G133: Providing a checkbox on the first page of a multipart form
    that allows users to ask for longer session time limit or no session
    time limit <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G133>

 2.

    G198: Providing a way for the user to turn the time limit off
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G198>


          Situation B: If a time limit is controlled by a script on the
          page:

 1.

    G198: Providing a way for the user to turn the time limit off
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G198>

 2.

    G180: Providing the user with a means to set the time limit to 10
    times the default time limit
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G180>

 3.

    SCR16: Providing a script that warns the user a time limit is about
    to expire
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR16>
    (Scripting) *AND* SCR1: Allowing the user to extend the default time
    limit <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR1>
    (Scripting)

 4.

    FLASH19: Providing a script that warns the user a time limit is
    about to expire and provides a way to extend it
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH19> (Flash)

 5.

    FLASH24: Allowing the user to extend the default time limit
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH24> (Flash)

 6.

    SL21: Replacing A Silverlight Timed Animation With a Nonanimated
    Element <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL21>
    (Silverlight)


          Situation C: If there are time limits on reading:

 1.

    G4: Allowing the content to be paused and restarted from where it
    was paused <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G4>

 2.

    G198: Providing a way for the user to turn the time limit off
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G198>

 3.

    SCR33: Using script to scroll content, and providing a mechanism to
    pause it
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR33>
    (Scripting)

 4.

    SCR36: Providing a mechanism to allow users to display moving,
    scrolling, or auto-updating text in a static window or area
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR36>
    (Scripting)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.2.1

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Using a script to poll the server and notify a user if a time limit
    is present (future link) (Scripting)

  *

    Using sounds to focus user's attention (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 2.2.1

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.2.1 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F40: Failure of Success Criterion 2.2.1 and 2.2.4 due to using meta
    redirect with a time limit
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F40>

  *

    F41: Failure of Success Criterion 2.2.1, 2.2.4, and 3.2.5 due to
    using meta refresh to reload the page
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F41>

  *

    F58: Failure of Success Criterion 2.2.1 due to using server-side
    techniques to automatically redirect pages after a time-out
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F58>


      Key Terms

essential

    if removed, would fundamentally change the information or
    functionality of the content, *and* information and functionality
    cannot be achieved in another way that would conform

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Pause, Stop, Hide*:
    Understanding SC 2.2.2

    *2.2.2
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#time-limits-pause>
    Pause, Stop, Hide:* For moving, blinking
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#blinksdef>,
    scrolling, or auto-updating information, all of the following are
    true: (Level A)

      *

        *Moving, blinking, scrolling: *For any moving, blinking or
        scrolling information that (1) starts automatically, (2) lasts
        more than five seconds, and (3) is presented in parallel with
        other content, there is a mechanism for the user to pause
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#pauseddef>,
        stop, or hide it unless the movement, blinking, or scrolling is
        part of an activity where it is essential
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#essentialdef>; and

      *

        *Auto-updating: *For any auto-updating information that (1)
        starts automatically and (2) is presented in parallel with other
        content, there is a mechanism for the user to pause, stop, or
        hide it or to control the frequency of the update unless the
        auto-updating is part of an activity where it is essential.

    /Note 1: /For requirements related to flickering or flashing
    content, refer to /Guideline 2.3 <#seizure>/.

    /Note 2: /Since any content that does not meet this success
    criterion can interfere with a user's ability to use the whole page,
    all content on the Web page (whether it is used to meet other
    success criteria or not) must meet this success criterion. See
    /Conformance Requirement 5: Non-Interference
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#cc5>/.

    /Note 3: /Content that is updated periodically by software or that
    is streamed to the user agent is not required to preserve or present
    information that is generated or received between the initiation of
    the pause and resuming presentation, as this may not be technically
    possible, and in many situations could be misleading to do so.

    /Note 4: /An animation that occurs as part of a preload phase or
    similar situation can be considered essential if interaction cannot
    occur during that phase for all users and if not indicating progress
    could confuse users or cause them to think that content was frozen
    or broken.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to avoid distracting users
during their interaction with a Web page.

"Moving, blinking and scrolling" refers to content in which the visible
content conveys a sense of motion. Common examples include motion
pictures, synchronized media presentations, animations, real-time games,
and scrolling stock tickers. "Auto-updating" refers to content that
updates or disappears based on a preset time interval. Common time-based
content includes audio, automatically updated weather information, news,
stock price updates, and auto-advancing presentations and messages. The
requirements for moving, blinking and scrolling content and for
auto-updating content are the same except that:

  *

    authors have the option of providing the user with a means to
    control the frequency of updates when content is auto-updating and

  *

    there is no five second exception for auto-updating since it makes
    little sense to auto-update for just three seconds and then stop

Content that moves or auto-updates can be a barrier to anyone who has
trouble reading stationary text quickly as well as anyone who has
trouble tracking moving objects. It can also cause problems for screen
readers.

Moving content can also be a severe distraction for some people. Certain
groups, particularly those with attention deficit disorders, find
blinking content distracting, making it difficult for them to
concentrate on other parts of the Web page. Five seconds was chosen
because it is long enough to get a user's attention, but not so long
that a user cannot wait out the distraction if necessary to use the page.

Content that is paused can either resume in real-time or continue
playing from the point in the presentation where the user left off.

 1.

    Pausing and resuming where the user left off is best for users who
    want to pause to read content and works best when the content is not
    associated with a real-time event or status.

    /Note: /See /Understanding Success Criterion 2.2.1 Timing Adjustable
    <#time-limits-required-behaviors>/ for additional requirements
    related to time-limits for reading.

 2.

    Pausing and jumping to current display (when pause is released) is
    better for information that is real-time or "status" in nature. For
    example, weather radar, a stock ticker, a traffic camera, or an
    auction timer, would present misleading information if a pause
    caused it to display old information when the content was restarted.

    /Note: /Hiding content would have the same result as pausing and
    jumping to current display (when pause is released).

For a mechanism to be considered "a mechanism for the user to pause," it
must provide the user with a means to pause that does not tie up the
user or the focus so that the page cannot be used. The word "pause" here
is meant in the sense of a "pause button" although other mechanisms than
a button can be used. Having an animation stop only so long as a user
has focus on it (where it restarts as soon as the user moves the focus
away) would not be considered a "mechanism for the user to pause"
because it makes the page unusable in the process and would not meet
this SC.

It is important to note that the terms "blinking" and "flashing" can
sometimes refer to the same content.

  *

    "Blinking" refers to content that causes a distraction problem.
    Blinking can be allowed for a short time as long as it stops (or can
    be stopped)

  *

    "Flashing" refers to content that can trigger a seizure (if it is
    more than 3 per second and large and bright enough). This cannot be
    allowed even for a second or it could cause a seizure. And turning
    the flash off is also not an option since the seizure could occur
    faster than most users could turn it off.

  *

    Blinking usually does not occur at speeds of 3 per second or more,
    but it can. If blinking occurs faster than 3 per second, it would
    also be considered a flash.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.2.2

  *

    Providing content that stops blinking after five seconds or
    providing a mechanism for users to stop blinking content allows
    people with certain disabilities to interact with the Web page.

  *

    One use of content that blinks is to draw the visitor's attention to
    that content. Although this is an effective technique for all users
    with vision, it can be a problem for some users if it persists. For
    certain groups, including people with low literacy, reading and
    intellectual disabilities, and people with attention deficit
    disorders, content that blinks may make it difficult or even
    impossible to interact with the rest of the Web page.


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.2.2

  *

    *An essential animation can be paused without affecting the activity*

    A Web site helps users understand 'how things work' through
    animations that demonstrate processes. Animations have "pause" and
    "restart" buttons.

  *

    *A stock ticker*

    A stock ticker has "pause" and "restart" buttons. Pausing the ticker
    causes it to pause on the currently displayed stock. Restarting
    causes the ticker to resume from the stopped point but with a notice
    that the display is delayed. Since the intent of the stock ticker is
    usually to provide realtime information, there might also be a
    button that would advance the ticker to the most recently traded stock.

  *

    *A game is designed so that users take turns rather than competing
    in real-time*

    One party can pause the game without invalidating the competitive
    aspect of it.

  *

    *A Web advertisement*

    An advertisement blinks to get viewers attention but stops after 5
    seconds

  *

    *A form prompt*

    A form blinks an arrow near the submit button if a user finishes
    filling out the form but does not activate the submit button. The
    blinking stops after 5 seconds.

  *

    *An animation*

    An animation runs in the upper portion of the page but has a "freeze
    animation" button near the bottom of the animation.

  *

    *A "loading" animation*

    A preloader animation is shown on a page which requires a certain
    percentage of a large file to be downloaded before playback can
    begin. The animation is the only content on the page and instructs
    the user to please wait while the video loads. Because the moving
    content is not presented in parallel with other content, no
    mechanism to pause, stop or hide it needs to be provided, even
    though the animation may run for more than 5 seconds for users with
    slower connections.

  *

    *A full-page advertisement*

    A site requires that all users view a 15 second advertisement before
    they can access free content available from their site. Because
    viewing the advertisement is a requirement for all users and because
    it is not presented in parallel with other content, no mechanism to
    pause, stop or hide it needs to be provided.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.2.2 - Pause, Stop,
      Hide

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G4: Allowing the content to be paused and restarted from where it
    was paused <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G4>

 2.

    SL11: Pausing or Stopping A Decorative Silverlight Animation
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL11>
    (Silverlight)

 3.

    SL12: Pausing, Stopping, or Playing Media in Silverlight
    MediaElements
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL12>
    (Silverlight)

 4.

    SCR33: Using script to scroll content, and providing a mechanism to
    pause it
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR33>
    (Scripting)

 5.

    FLASH35: Using script to scroll Flash content, and providing a
    mechanism to pause it
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH35> (Flash)

 6.

    G11: Creating content that blinks for less than 5 seconds
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G11>

 7.

    G187: Using a technology to include blinking content that can be
    turned off via the user agent
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G187>

 8.

    G152: Setting animated gif images to stop blinking after n cycles
    (within 5 seconds)
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G152>

 9.

    SCR22: Using scripts to control blinking and stop it in five seconds
    or less <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR22>
    (Scripting)

10.

    FLASH36: Using scripts to control blinking and stop it in five
    seconds or less
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH36> (Flash)

11.

    G186: Using a control in the Web page that stops moving, blinking,
    or auto-updating content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G186>

12.

    G191: Providing a link, button, or other mechanism that reloads the
    page without any blinking content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G191>

13.

    SL24: Using AutoPlay to Keep Silverlight Media from Playing
    Automatically
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL24>
    (Silverlight)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.2.2

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Providing a mechanism to stop all content that blinks within a Web
    page (future link)

  *

    Providing the user with a means to stop moving content even if it
    stops automatically within 5 seconds (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 2.2.2

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.2.2 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F16: Failure of Success Criterion 2.2.2 due to including scrolling
    content where movement is not essential to the activity without also
    including a mechanism to pause and restart the content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F16>

  *

    F47: Failure of Success Criterion 2.2.2 due to using the blink
    element <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F47>

  *

    F4: Failure of Success Criterion 2.2.2 due to using
    text-decoration:blink without a mechanism to stop it in less than
    five seconds <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F4>

  *

    F50: Failure of Success Criterion 2.2.2 due to a script that causes
    a blink effect without a mechanism to stop the blinking at 5 seconds
    or less <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F50>

  *

    F7: Failure of Success Criterion 2.2.2 due to an object or applet,
    such as Java or Flash, that has blinking content without a mechanism
    to pause the content that blinks for more than five seconds
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F7>


      Key Terms

blinking

    switch back and forth between two visual states in a way that is
    meant to draw attention

    /Note: /See also flash
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#flash-def>. It is
    possible for something to be large enough and blink brightly enough
    at the right frequency to be also classified as a flash.

essential

    if removed, would fundamentally change the information or
    functionality of the content, *and* information and functionality
    cannot be achieved in another way that would conform

paused

    stopped by user request and not resumed until requested by user

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *No Timing*:
    Understanding SC 2.2.3

    *2.2.3
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#time-limits-no-exceptions>
    No Timing:* Timing is not an essential
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#essentialdef> part
    of the event or activity presented by the content, except for
    non-interactive synchronized media
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#synchronizedmediadef> and
    real-time events
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#real-time-eventsdef>. (Level
    AAA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to minimize the occurrence of
content that requires timed interaction. This enables people with
blindness, low vision, cognitive limitations, or motor impairments to
interact with content. This differs from the Level A Success Criterion
in that the only exception is for real-time events.

/Note: /Video only, such as sign language, is covered in Guideline 1.1
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#text-equiv>.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.2.3

  *

    People with physical disabilities often need more time to react, to
    type and to complete activities. People with low vision need more
    time to locate things on screen and to read. People who are blind
    and using screen readers may need more time to understand screen
    layouts, to find information and to operate controls. People who
    have cognitive or language limitations need more time to read and to
    understand. People who are deaf and communicate in sign language may
    need more time to read information printed in text (which may be a
    second language for some).

  *

    In circumstances where a sign-language interpreter may be relating
    audio content to a user who is deaf, control over time limits is
    also important.


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.2.3

  *

    *A test is designed so that time to complete the test does not
    affect the scoring*

    Rather than calibrating an on-line test using a time limit, the test
    is calibrated based on scores when users have no time limits.

  *

    *A game is designed so that users take turns rather than competing
    in real-time*

    One party can pause the game without invalidating the competitive
    aspect of it.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.2.3 - No Timing

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G5: Allowing users to complete an activity without any time limit
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G5>


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.2.3

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

(none currently documented)


        Common Failures for SC 2.2.3

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.2.3 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

essential

    if removed, would fundamentally change the information or
    functionality of the content, *and* information and functionality
    cannot be achieved in another way that would conform

real-time event

    event that a) occurs at the same time as the viewing and b) is not
    completely generated by the content

    /Example 1: /A Webcast of a live performance (occurs at the same
    time as the viewing and is not prerecorded).

    /Example 2: /An on-line auction with people bidding (occurs at the
    same time as the viewing).

    /Example 3: /Live humans interacting in a virtual world using
    avatars (is not completely generated by the content and occurs at
    the same time as the viewing).

synchronized media

    audio <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodef> or
    video <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef>
    synchronized with another format for presenting information and/or
    with time-based interactive components, unless the media is a media
    alternative for text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#multimedia-alt-textdef>
    that is clearly labeled as such

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Interruptions*:
    Understanding SC 2.2.4

    *2.2.4
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#time-limits-postponed>
    Interruptions:* Interruptions can be postponed or suppressed by the
    user, except interruptions involving an emergency
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#emergencydef>.
    (Level AAA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to allow users to turn off
updates from the author/server except in emergencies. Emergencies would
include civil emergency alert messages or any other messages that warn
of danger to health, safety, or property, including data loss, loss of
connection, etcetera.

This allows access by people with cognitive limitations or attention
disorders by enabling them to focus on the content. It also allows users
who are blind or have low vision to keep their "viewing" focus on the
content they are currently reading.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.2.4

  *

    Individuals with attention deficit disorders can focus on content
    without distraction.

  *

    Individuals with low vision or who use screen readers will not have
    content updated while they are viewing it (which can lead to
    discontinuity and misunderstanding if they start reading in one
    topic and finish in another).


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.2.4

  *

    *Example 1. Setting user preferences*

    The preferences page of a Web portal includes an option to postpone
    all updates and alerts until the end of the current session, except
    for alerts concerning emergencies.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.2.4 - Interruptions

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G75: Providing a mechanism to postpone any updating of content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G75>

 2.

    G76: Providing a mechanism to request an update of the content
    instead of updating automatically
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G76>

 3.

    SCR14: Using scripts to make nonessential alerts optional
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR14>
    (Scripting)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.2.4

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

(none currently documented)


        Common Failures for SC 2.2.4

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.2.4 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F40: Failure of Success Criterion 2.2.1 and 2.2.4 due to using meta
    redirect with a time limit
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F40>

  *

    F41: Failure of Success Criterion 2.2.1, 2.2.4, and 3.2.5 due to
    using meta refresh to reload the page
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F41>


      Key Terms

emergency

    a sudden, unexpected situation or occurrence that requires immediate
    action to preserve health, safety, or property

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Re-authenticating*:
    Understanding SC 2.2.5

    *2.2.5
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#time-limits-server-timeout>
    Re-authenticating:* When an authenticated session expires, the user
    can continue the activity without loss of data after
    re-authenticating. (Level AAA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to allow all users to complete
authenticated transactions that have inactivity time limits or other
circumstances that would cause a user to be logged out while in the
midst of completing the transaction.

For security reasons, many sites implement an authentication time limit
after a certain period of inactivity. These time limits may cause
problems for persons with disabilities because it may take longer for
them to complete the activity.

Other sites will log a person out of a session if a person logs in on
the Web site from another computer or if other activities arise that
make the site suspicious of whether the person is still the same
legitimate person who logged in originally. When users are logged out
while still in the midst of a transaction - it is important that they be
given the ability to re-authenticate and continue with the transaction
without the loss of any data already entered.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.2.5

  *

    This Success Criterion benefits people who may require additional
    time to complete an activity. People with cognitive limitations may
    read slowly and require additional time to read and respond to a
    questionnaire. Users interacting via a screen reader may need extra
    time to navigate and complete a complicated form. A person with
    motor impairments or who navigates with an alternative input device
    may require additional time to navigate through or complete input
    within a form.

  *

    In circumstances where a sign-language interpreter may be relating
    audio content to a user who is deaf, control over time limits is
    also important.


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.2.5

  *

    *A shopping site checkout*

    A user with extremely limited use of the hands is logged into a
    shopping site. It takes so long to enter credit card information
    into the application that a time limit occurs while the user is
    performing the checkout process. When the user returns to the
    checkout process and submits the form, the site returns a login
    screen to re-authenticate. After the user logs in, the check out
    process is restored with the same information and at the same stage.
    The user did not lose any data because the server had temporarily
    accepted and stored the submission even though the session had timed
    out and restored the user to the same state after re-authentication
    was completed.

  *

    *Authentication in an email program*

    An email program has an authentication time-out after 30 minutes.
    The program prompts the user several minutes before the time-out
    occurs and provides a link to open a new window in order to
    re-authenticate. The original window with the in-progress email
    remains intact and, after re-authentication, the user may send that
    data.

  *

    *A questionnaire with a time limit *

    A long questionnaire provided within a single Web page has
    information at the beginning that indicates that the session will
    time out after 15 minutes. The user is also informed that the
    questionnaire can be saved at any point and completed at a later
    time. Within the Web page there are several buttons provided to save
    the partially completed form. In addition, with JavaScript in the
    list of accessibility-supported content technologies that are relied
    upon, the user can elect to be alerted via a pop-up if the session
    is close to timing out.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.2.5 -
      Re-authenticating

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    Providing options to continue without loss of data using one of the
    following techniques:

      *

        G105: Saving data so that it can be used after a user
        re-authenticates
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G105>

      *

        G181: Encoding user data as hidden or encrypted data in a
        re-authorization page
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G181>

/Note: /Refer to Techniques for Addressing Success Criterion 2.2.1
<https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/time-limits-required-behaviors.html#time-limits-required-behaviors-techniques-head>
for techniques related to providing notifications about time limits.


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.2.5

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

(none currently documented)


        Common Failures for SC 2.2.5

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.2.5 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F12: Failure of Success Criterion 2.2.5 due to having a session time
    limit without a mechanism for saving user's input and
    re-establishing that information upon re-authentication
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F12>

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Seizures*:
    Understanding Guideline 2.3

    *Guideline 2.3: *Do not design content in a way that is known to
    cause seizures.


      Intent of Guideline 2.3

Some people with seizure disorders can have a seizure triggered by
flashing visual content. Most people are unaware that they have this
disorder until it strikes. In 1997, a cartoon on television in Japan
sent over 700 children to the hospital, including about 500 who had
seizures. Warnings do not work well because they are often missed,
especially by children who may in fact not be able to read them.

The objective of this guideline is to ensure that content that is marked
as conforming to WCAG 2.0 avoids the types of flash that are most likely
to cause seizure when viewed even for a second or two.


      Advisory Techniques for Guideline 2.3 (not success criteria specific)

Specific techniques for meeting each Success Criterion for this
guideline are listed in the understanding sections for each Success
Criterion (listed below). If there are techniques, however, for
addressing this guideline that do not fall under any of the success
criteria, they are listed here. These techniques are not required or
sufficient for meeting any success criteria, but can make certain types
of Web content more accessible to more people.

  *

    Ensuring that content does not violate spatial pattern thresholds
    (future link)


    *Three Flashes or Below Threshold*:
    Understanding SC 2.3.1

    *2.3.1
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#seizure-does-not-violate>
    Three Flashes or Below Threshold:* Web pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> do not
    contain anything that flashes more than three times in any one
    second period, or the flash
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#flash-def> is below
    the general flash and red flash thresholds
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#general-thresholddef>.
    (Level A)

    /Note: /Since any content that does not meet this success criterion
    can interfere with a user's ability to use the whole page, all
    content on the Web page (whether it is used to meet other success
    criteria or not) must meet this success criterion. See /Conformance
    Requirement 5: Non-Interference
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#cc5>/.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to allow users to access the
full content of a site without inducing seizures due to photosensitivity.

Individuals who have photosensitive seizure disorders can have a seizure
triggered by content that flashes at certain frequencies for more than a
few flashes. People are even more sensitive to red flashing than to
other colors, so a special test is provided for saturated red flashing.
These guidelines are based on guidelines for the broadcasting industry
as adapted for computer screens, where content is viewed from a closer
distance (using a larger angle of vision).

Flashing can be caused by the display, the computer rendering the image
or by the content being rendered. The author has no control of the first
two. They can be addressed by the design and speed of the display and
computer. The intent of this criterion is to ensure that flicker that
violates the flash thresholds is not caused by the content itself. For
example, the content could contain a video clip or animated image of a
series of strobe flashes, or close-ups of rapid-fire explosions.

This Success Criterion replaces a much more restrictive criterion in
WCAG 1.0 that did not allow any flashing (even of a single pixel) within
a broad frequency range (3 to 50 Hz). This Success Criterion is based on
existing specifications in use in the UK and by others for television
broadcast and has been adapted for computer display viewing. The 1024 x
768 screen is used as the reference screen resolution for the
evaluation. The 341 x 256 pixel block represents a 10 degree viewport at
a typical viewing distance. (The 10 degree field is taken from the
original specifications and represents the central vision portion of the
eye, where people are most susceptible to photo stimuli.)

The combined area of flashes occurring concurrently and contiguously
means the total area that is actually flashing at the same time. It is
calculated by adding up the contiguous area that is flashing
simultaneously within any 10 degree angle of view.

/Note: /The terms "blinking" and "flashing" can sometimes refer to the
same content.

  *

    "Blinking" refers to content that causes a distraction problem.
    Blinking can be allowed for a short time as long as it stops (or can
    be stopped)

  *

    "Flashing" refers to content that can trigger a seizure (if it is
    more than 3 per second and large and bright enough). This cannot be
    allowed even for a second or it could cause a seizure. And turning
    the flash off is also not an option since the seizure could occur
    faster than most users could turn it off.

  *

    Blinking usually does not occur at speeds of 3 per second or more,
    but it can. If blinking occurs faster than 3 per second, it would
    also be considered a flash.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.3.1

  *

    Individuals who have seizures when viewing flashing material will be
    able to view all of the material on a site without having a seizure
    and without having to miss the full experience of the content by
    being limited to text alternatives. This includes people with
    photosensitive epilepsy as well as other photosensitive seizure
    disorders.


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.3.1

  *

    A Web site has video of muzzle flash of machine gun fire, but limits
    the size of the flashing image to a small portion of the screen
    below the flash threshold size.

  *

    A movie with a scene involving very bright lightning flashes is
    edited so that the lightning only flashes three times in any one
    second period.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Harding FPA Web Site <http://www.hardingfpa.com/>

  *

    Trace Center Photosensitive Epilepsy Analysis Tool (PEAT)
    <http://trace.wisc.edu/peat/>

  *

    Information about Photosensitive Seizure Disorders
    <http://trace.wisc.edu/peat/photosensitive.php>

  *

    Epilepsy Action <https://www.epilepsy.org.uk/>

  *

    Epilepsy Foundation
    <http://www.epilepsy.com/learn/triggers-seizures/photosensitivity-and-seizures>


  *

    ITC Guidance Note for Licensees on Flashing Images and Regular
    Patterns in Television
    <http://www.ofcom.org.uk/static/archive/itc/itc_publications/codes_guidance/flashing_images/index.asp.html>



      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.3.1 - Three
      Flashes or Below Threshold

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G19: Ensuring that no component of the content flashes more than
    three times in any 1-second period
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G19>

 2.

    G176: Keeping the flashing area small enough
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G176>

 3.

    G15: Using a tool to ensure that content does not violate the
    general flash threshold or red flash threshold
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G15>


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.3.1

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Reducing contrast for any flashing content (future link)

  *

    Avoiding fully saturated reds for any flashing content (future link)

  *

    Reducing the number of flashes even if they do not violate
    thresholds (future link)

  *

    Providing a mechanism to suppress any flashing content before it
    begins (future link)

  *

    Slowing down live material to avoid rapid flashes (as in flashbulbs)
    (future link)

  *

    Freezing the image momentarily if 3 flashes within one second are
    detected (future link)

  *

    Dropping the contrast ratio if 3 flashes within one second are
    detected (future link)

  *

    Allowing users to set a custom flash rate limit (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 2.3.1

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.3.1 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

Web page

    a non-embedded resource obtained from a single URI using HTTP plus
    any other resources that are used in the rendering or intended to be
    rendered together with it by a user agent
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>

    /Note 1: /Although any "other resources" would be rendered together
    with the primary resource, they would not necessarily be rendered
    simultaneously with each other.

    /Note 2: /For the purposes of conformance with these guidelines, a
    resource must be "non-embedded" within the scope of conformance to
    be considered a Web page.

    /Example 1: /A Web resource including all embedded images and media.

    /Example 2: /A Web mail program built using Asynchronous JavaScript
    and XML (AJAX). The program lives entirely at
    http://example.com/mail, but includes an inbox, a contacts area and
    a calendar. Links or buttons are provided that cause the inbox,
    contacts, or calendar to display, but do not change the URI of the
    page as a whole.

    /Example 3: /A customizable portal site, where users can choose
    content to display from a set of different content modules.

    /Example 4: /When you enter "http://shopping.example.com/" in your
    browser, you enter a movie-like interactive shopping environment
    where you visually move around in a store dragging products off of
    the shelves around you and into a visual shopping cart in front of
    you. Clicking on a product causes it to be demonstrated with a
    specification sheet floating alongside. This might be a single-page
    Web site or just one page within a Web site.

flash

    a pair of opposing changes in relative luminance
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#relativeluminancedef> that
    can cause seizures in some people if it is large enough and in the
    right frequency range

    /Note 1: /See general flash and red flash thresholds
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#general-thresholddef> for
    information about types of flash that are not allowed.

    /Note 2: /See also blinking
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#blinksdef>.

general flash and red flash thresholds

    a flash <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#flash-def>
    or rapidly changing image sequence is below the threshold (i.e.,
    content *passes*) if any of the following are true:

     1.

        there are no more than three *general flashes* and / or no more
        than three *red flashes* within any one-second period; or

     2.

        the combined area of flashes occurring concurrently occupies no
        more than a total of .006 steradians within any 10 degree visual
        field on the screen (25% of any 10 degree visual field on the
        screen) at typical viewing distance

    where:

      *

        A *general flash* is defined as a pair of opposing changes in
        relative luminance
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#relativeluminancedef>
        of 10% or more of the maximum relative luminance where the
        relative luminance of the darker image is below 0.80; and where
        "a pair of opposing changes" is an increase followed by a
        decrease, or a decrease followed by an increase, and

      *

        A *red flash* is defined as any pair of opposing transitions
        involving a saturated red.

    /Exception:/ Flashing that is a fine, balanced, pattern such as
    white noise or an alternating checkerboard pattern with "squares"
    smaller than 0.1 degree (of visual field at typical viewing
    distance) on a side does not violate the thresholds.

    /Note 1: /For general software or Web content, using a 341 x 256
    pixel rectangle anywhere on the displayed screen area when the
    content is viewed at 1024 x 768 pixels will provide a good estimate
    of a 10 degree visual field for standard screen sizes and viewing
    distances (e.g., 15-17 inch screen at 22-26 inches). (Higher
    resolutions displays showing the same rendering of the content yield
    smaller and safer images so it is lower resolutions that are used to
    define the thresholds.)

    /Note 2: /A transition is the change in relative luminance (or
    relative luminance/color for red flashing) between adjacent peaks
    and valleys in a plot of relative luminance (or relative
    luminance/color for red flashing) measurement against time. A flash
    consists of two opposing transitions.

    /Note 3: /The current working definition in the field for *"pair of
    opposing transitions involving a saturated red"* is where, for
    either or both states involved in each transition, R/(R+ G + B) >=
    0.8, and the change in the value of (R-G-B)x320 is > 20 (negative
    values of (R-G-B)x320 are set to zero) for both transitions. R, G, B
    values range from 0-1 as specified in “relative luminance”
    definition. [HARDING-BINNIE] <#HARDING-BINNIE>

    /Note 4: /Tools are available that will carry out analysis from
    video screen capture. However, no tool is necessary to evaluate for
    this condition if flashing is less than or equal to 3 flashes in any
    one second. Content automatically passes (see #1 and #2 above).

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Three Flashes*:
    Understanding SC 2.3.2

    *2.3.2
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#seizure-three-times>
    Three Flashes:* Web pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> do not
    contain anything that flashes
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#flash-def> more than
    three times in any one second period. (Level AAA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The purpose of this Success Criterion is to further reduce the chance of
seizures. Seizures cannot be completely eliminated since some people are
so sensitive. However, by eliminating all 3-per-second flashing over any
area of the screen, the chances of a person having a seizure are further
reduced than when just meeting the measures ordinarily used today in
standards internationally, as we do at Level A.

Whereas Success Criterion 2.3.1
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#seizure-does-not-violate> allows
flashing if it is dim enough or has a small enough area, Success
Criterion 2.3.2 does not allow flashing greater than 3 per second,
regardless of brightness or size. As a result, even a single flashing
pixel would violate this criterion. The intent is to guard against
flashing larger than a single pixel, but since an unknown amount of
magnification or high contrast setting may be applied, the prohibition
is against any flashing.

/Note: /In some cases, what we refer to as "blinking" and what we refer
to as "flashing" may overlap slightly. We are using different terms for
the two because "blinking" causes a distraction problem which you can
allow for a short time as long as it stops (or can be stopped) whereas
"flashing" is a seizure trigger and cannot be allowed or it will cause a
seizure. The seizure would occur faster than most users could turn it
off. "Blink" therefore refers to slow repeating changes that would
distract. "Flash" refers to changes that could cause a seizure if they
were bright enough or persisted long enough. Blinking usually doesn't
occur at speeds of 3 per second or more so blink and flash do not
overlap. However, blinking can occur faster than 3 per second so there
could be an overlap. See /Understanding Success Criterion 2.2.2 Pause,
Stop, Hide <#time-limits-pause>/ for more information on blink.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.3.2

  *

    Individuals who have seizures when viewing flashing material will be
    able to view all of the material on a site without having a seizure
    and without having to miss the full experience of the content by
    being limited to text alternatives. This includes people with
    photosensitive epilepsy as well as other photosensitive seizure
    disorders.


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.3.2

  *

    A movie with a scene involving very bright lightning flashes is
    edited so that the lightning only flashes three times in any one
    second period.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Harding FPA Web Site <http://www.hardingfpa.com/>

  *

    Trace Center Photosensitive Epilepsy Analysis Tool (PEAT)
    <http://trace.wisc.edu/peat/>

  *

    Information about Photosensitive Seizure Disorders
    <http://trace.wisc.edu/peat/photosensitive.php>

  *

    Epilepsy Action <https://www.epilepsy.org.uk/>

  *

    Epilepsy Foundation
    <http://www.epilepsy.com/learn/triggers-seizures/photosensitivity-and-seizures>


  *

    ITC Guidance Note for Licensees on Flashing Images and Regular
    Patterns in Television
    <http://www.ofcom.org.uk/static/archive/itc/itc_publications/codes_guidance/flashing_images/index.asp.html>



      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.3.2 - Three Flashes

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G19: Ensuring that no component of the content flashes more than
    three times in any 1-second period
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G19>


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.3.2

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Reducing contrast for any flashing content (future link)

  *

    Avoiding fully saturated reds for any flashing content (future link)

  *

    Reducing the number of flashes even if they don't violate thresholds
    (future link)

  *

    Slowing down live material to avoid rapid flashes (as in flashbulbs)
    (future link)

  *

    Freezing the image momentarily if 3 flashes within one second are
    detected (future link)

  *

    Dropping the contrast ratio if 3 flashes within one second are
    detected (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 2.3.2

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.3.2 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

Web page

    a non-embedded resource obtained from a single URI using HTTP plus
    any other resources that are used in the rendering or intended to be
    rendered together with it by a user agent
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>

    /Note 1: /Although any "other resources" would be rendered together
    with the primary resource, they would not necessarily be rendered
    simultaneously with each other.

    /Note 2: /For the purposes of conformance with these guidelines, a
    resource must be "non-embedded" within the scope of conformance to
    be considered a Web page.

    /Example 1: /A Web resource including all embedded images and media.

    /Example 2: /A Web mail program built using Asynchronous JavaScript
    and XML (AJAX). The program lives entirely at
    http://example.com/mail, but includes an inbox, a contacts area and
    a calendar. Links or buttons are provided that cause the inbox,
    contacts, or calendar to display, but do not change the URI of the
    page as a whole.

    /Example 3: /A customizable portal site, where users can choose
    content to display from a set of different content modules.

    /Example 4: /When you enter "http://shopping.example.com/" in your
    browser, you enter a movie-like interactive shopping environment
    where you visually move around in a store dragging products off of
    the shelves around you and into a visual shopping cart in front of
    you. Clicking on a product causes it to be demonstrated with a
    specification sheet floating alongside. This might be a single-page
    Web site or just one page within a Web site.

flash

    a pair of opposing changes in relative luminance
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#relativeluminancedef> that
    can cause seizures in some people if it is large enough and in the
    right frequency range

    /Note 1: /See general flash and red flash thresholds
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#general-thresholddef> for
    information about types of flash that are not allowed.

    /Note 2: /See also blinking
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#blinksdef>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Navigable*:
    Understanding Guideline 2.4

    *Guideline 2.4: * Provide ways to help users navigate, find content,
    and determine where they are.


      Intent of Guideline 2.4

The intent of this guideline is to help users find the content they need
and allow them to keep track of their location. These tasks are often
more difficult for people with disabilities. For finding, navigation,
and orientation, it is important that the user can find out what the
current location is. For navigation, information about the possible
destinations needs to be available. Screen readers convert content to
synthetic speech which, because it is audio, must be presented in linear
order. Some Success Criteria in this guideline explain what provisions
need to be taken to ensure that screen reader users can successfully
navigate the content. Others allow users to more easily recognize
navigation bars and page headers and to bypass this repeated content.
Unusual user interface features or behaviors may confuse people with
cognitive disabilities.

As described in The Motive Web Design Glossary
<http://www.motive.co.nz/glossary/navigation.php>, navigation has two
main functions:

  *

    to tell the user where they are

  *

    to enable the user to go somewhere else

This guideline works closely with Guideline 1.3
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#content-structure-separation>,
which ensures that any structure in the content can be perceived, a key
to navigation as well. Headings are particularly important mechanisms
for helping users orient themselves within content and navigate through
it. Many users of assistive technologies rely on appropriate headings to
skim through information and easily locate the different sections of
content. Satisfying Success Criterion 1.3.1
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#content-structure-separation-programmatic>
for headings also addresses some aspects of Guideline 2.4.


      Advisory Techniques for Guideline 2.4 (not success criteria specific)

Specific techniques for meeting each Success Criterion for this
guideline are listed in the understanding sections for each Success
Criterion (listed below). If there are techniques, however, for
addressing this guideline that do not fall under any of the success
criteria, they are listed here. These techniques are not required or
sufficient for meeting any success criteria, but can make certain types
of Web content more accessible to more people.

  *

    Limiting the number of links per page (future link)

  *

    Providing mechanisms to navigate to different sections of the
    content of a Web page (future link)

  *

    Making links visually distinct (future link)

  *

    Highlighting search terms (future link)


    *Bypass Blocks*:
    Understanding SC 2.4.1

    *2.4.1
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#navigation-mechanisms-skip>
    Bypass Blocks:* A mechanism
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#mechanismdef> is
    available to bypass blocks of content that are repeated on multiple
    Web pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef>. (Level A)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to allow people who navigate
sequentially through content more direct access to the primary content
of the Web page. Web pages and applications often have content that
appears on other pages or screens. Examples of repeated blocks of
content include but are not limited to navigation links, heading
graphics, and advertising frames. Small repeated sections such as
individual words, phrases or single links are not considered blocks for
the purposes of this provision.

This is in contrast to a sighted user's ability to ignore the repeated
material either by focusing on the center of the screen (where main
content usually appears) or a mouse user's ability to select a link with
a single mouse click rather than encountering every link or form control
that comes before the item they want.

It is not the intent of this Success Criterion to require authors to
provide methods that are redundant to functionality provided by the user
agent. Most web browsers provide keyboard shortcuts to move the user
focus to the top of the page, so if a set of navigation links is
provided at the bottom of a web page providing a "skip" link may be
unnecessary.

/Note: /Although this Success Criterion deals with blocks of content
that are repeated on multiple pages, we also strongly promote structural
markup on individual pages as per Success Criteria 1.3.1.

Although the success criterion does not specifically use the term
“within a set of web pages”, the concept of the pages belonging to a set
is implied. An author would not be expected to avoid any possible
duplication of content in any two pages that are not in some way related
to each other; that are not "Web pages that share a common purpose and
that are created by the same author, group or organization” (the
definition of set of web pages).

/Note: /Even for web pages that are not in a set, if a web page has
blocks of text that are repeated within the page it may be helpful (but
not required) to provide a means to skip over them.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.4.1

  *

    When this Success Criterion is not satisfied, it may be difficult
    for people with some disabilities to reach the main content of a Web
    page quickly and easily.

  *

    Screen reader users who visit several pages on the same site can
    avoid having to hear all heading graphics and dozens of navigation
    links on every page before the main content is spoken.

  *

    People who use only the keyboard or a keyboard interface can reach
    content with fewer keystrokes. Otherwise, they might have to make
    dozens of keystrokes before reaching a link in the main content
    area. This can take a long time and may cause severe physical pain
    for some users.

  *

    People who use screen magnifiers do not have to search through the
    same headings or other blocks of information to find where the
    content begins each time they enter a new page.

  *

    People with cognitive limitations as well as people who use screen
    readers may benefit when links are grouped into lists


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.4.1

  *

    A news organization's home page contains a main story in the middle
    of the page, surrounded by many blocks and sidebars for advertising,
    searching, and other services. There is a link at the top of the
    page that jumps to the main story. Without using this link, a
    keyboard user needs to tab through approximately 40 links to reach
    the main story; the screen reader user has to listen to 200 words;
    and the screen magnifier user must search around for the location of
    the main body.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    WebAIM: Semantic Structure
    <http://webaim.org/techniques/semanticstructure/>

  *

    Heading Tags <http://accessibility.psu.edu/headingshtml/>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.4.1 - Bypass Blocks

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    Creating links to skip blocks of repeated material using one of the
    following techniques:

      *

        G1: Adding a link at the top of each page that goes directly to
        the main content area
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G1>

      *

        G123: Adding a link at the beginning of a block of repeated
        content to go to the end of the block
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G123>

      *

        G124: Adding links at the top of the page to each area of the
        content <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G124>

      *

        SL25: Using Controls and Programmatic Focus to Bypass Blocks of
        Content in Silverlight
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL25>
        (Silverlight)

 2.

    Grouping blocks of repeated material in a way that can be skipped,
    using one of the following techniques:

      *

        ARIA11: Using ARIA landmarks to identify regions of a page
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA11>
        (ARIA)

      *

        H69: Providing heading elements at the beginning of each section
        of content
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H69> (HTML)

      *

        PDF9: Providing headings by marking content with heading tags in
        PDF documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF9> (PDF)

      *

        H70: Using frame elements to group blocks of repeated material
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H70>
        (HTML) *AND* H64: Using the title attribute of the frame and
        iframe elements
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H64> (HTML)

      *

        SCR28: Using an expandable and collapsible menu to bypass block
        of content
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR28>
        (Scripting)

      *

        SL29: Using Silverlight "List" Controls to Define Blocks that
        can be Bypassed
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL29>
        (Silverlight)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.4.1

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Providing keyboard access to important links and form controls
    (future link)

  *

    Providing skip links to enhance page navigation (future link)

  *

    Providing access keys (future link)

  *

    Using accessibility supported technologies which allow structured
    navigation by user agents and assistive technologies (future link)

  *

    C6: Positioning content based on structural markup
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C6> (CSS)


        Common Failures for SC 2.4.1

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.4.1 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

Web page

    a non-embedded resource obtained from a single URI using HTTP plus
    any other resources that are used in the rendering or intended to be
    rendered together with it by a user agent
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>

    /Note 1: /Although any "other resources" would be rendered together
    with the primary resource, they would not necessarily be rendered
    simultaneously with each other.

    /Note 2: /For the purposes of conformance with these guidelines, a
    resource must be "non-embedded" within the scope of conformance to
    be considered a Web page.

    /Example 1: /A Web resource including all embedded images and media.

    /Example 2: /A Web mail program built using Asynchronous JavaScript
    and XML (AJAX). The program lives entirely at
    http://example.com/mail, but includes an inbox, a contacts area and
    a calendar. Links or buttons are provided that cause the inbox,
    contacts, or calendar to display, but do not change the URI of the
    page as a whole.

    /Example 3: /A customizable portal site, where users can choose
    content to display from a set of different content modules.

    /Example 4: /When you enter "http://shopping.example.com/" in your
    browser, you enter a movie-like interactive shopping environment
    where you visually move around in a store dragging products off of
    the shelves around you and into a visual shopping cart in front of
    you. Clicking on a product causes it to be demonstrated with a
    specification sheet floating alongside. This might be a single-page
    Web site or just one page within a Web site.

mechanism

    process <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#processdef>
    or technique for achieving a result

    /Note 1: /The mechanism may be explicitly provided in the content,
    or may be relied upon
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#reliedupondef> to be
    provided by either the platform or by user agents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>,
    including assistive technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#atdef>.

    /Note 2: /The mechanism needs to meet all success criteria for the
    conformance level claimed.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Page Titled*:
    Understanding SC 2.4.2

    *2.4.2
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#navigation-mechanisms-title>
    Page Titled:* Web pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> have
    titles that describe topic or purpose. (Level A)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to help users find content and
orient themselves within it by ensuring that each Web page has a
descriptive title. Titles identify the current location without
requiring users to read or interpret page content. When titles appear in
site maps or lists of search results, users can more quickly identify
the content they need. User agents make the title of the page easily
available to the user for identifying the page. For instance, a user
agent may display the page title in the window title bar or as the name
of the tab containing the page.

In cases where the page is a document or a web application, the name of
the document or web application would be sufficient to describe the
purpose of the page. Note that it is not required to use the name of the
document or web application; other things may also describe the purpose
or the topic of the page.

Success Criteria 2.4.4
<https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/navigation-mechanisms-refs.html>
and 2.4.9
<https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/navigation-mechanisms-link.html>
deal with the purpose of links, many of which are links to web pages.
Here also, the name of a document or web application being linked to
would be sufficient to describe the purpose of the link. Having the link
and the title agree, or be very similar, is good practice and provides
continuity between the link 'clicked on' and the web page that the user
lands on.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.4.2

  *

    This criterion benefits all users in allowing users to quickly and
    easily identify whether the information contained in the Web page is
    relevant to their needs.

  *

    People with visual disabilities will benefit from being able to
    differentiate content when multiple Web pages are open.

  *

    People with cognitive disabilities, limited short-term memory and
    reading disabilities also benefit from the ability to identify
    content by its title.

  *

    This criterion also benefits people with severe mobility impairments
    whose mode of operation relies on audio when navigating between Web
    pages.


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.4.2

  *

    *An HTML Web page*

    The descriptive title of an HTML Web page is marked up with the
    <title> element so that it will be displayed in the title bar of the
    user agent.

  *

    *A document collection.*

    The title of Understanding WCAG 2.0
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/> is "Understanding WCAG
    2.0."

      o

        The introduction page has the title "Introduction to
        Understanding WCAG 2.0."

      o

        Major sections of the document are pages titled "Understanding
        Guideline X" and "Understanding Success Criterion X."

      o

        Appendix A has the title "Glossary."

      o

        Appendix B has the title "Acknowledgements."

      o

        Appendix C has the title "References."

  *

    *A Web application.*

    A banking application lets a user inspect his bank accounts, view
    past statements, and perform transactions. The Web application
    dynamically generates titles for each Web page, e.g., "Bank XYZ,
    accounts for John Smith" "Bank XYZ, December 2005 statement for
    Account 1234-5678".


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Writing Better Web Page Titles
    <http://www.socialpatterns.com/search-engine-optimization/writing-better-titles/>
    How to write titles for Web pages that will enhance search engine
    effectiveness.

  *

    Guidelines for Accessible and Usable Web Sites: Observing Users Who
    Work With Screen Readers
    <http://redish.net/images/stories/PDF/interactions.html>. Theofanos,
    M.F., and Redish, J. (2003). Interactions, Volume X, Issue 6,
    November-December 2003, pages 38-51,
    http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?doid=947226.947227


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.4.2 - Page Titled

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G88: Providing descriptive titles for Web pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G88> *AND*
    associating a title with a Web page using one of the following
    techniques:

      *

        H25: Providing a title using the title element
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H25> (HTML)

      *

        PDF18: Specifying the document title using the Title entry in
        the document information dictionary of a PDF document
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF18> (PDF)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.4.2

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    G127: Identifying a Web page's relationship to a larger collection
    of Web pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G127>

  *

    Identifying the subject of the Web page (future link)

  *

    Providing a meaningful name for identifying frames (future link)

  *

    Using unique titles for Web pages (future link)

  *

    Providing a descriptive top-level page heading (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 2.4.2

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.4.2 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F25: Failure of Success Criterion 2.4.2 due to the title of a Web
    page not identifying the contents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F25>


      Key Terms

Web page

    a non-embedded resource obtained from a single URI using HTTP plus
    any other resources that are used in the rendering or intended to be
    rendered together with it by a user agent
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>

    /Note 1: /Although any "other resources" would be rendered together
    with the primary resource, they would not necessarily be rendered
    simultaneously with each other.

    /Note 2: /For the purposes of conformance with these guidelines, a
    resource must be "non-embedded" within the scope of conformance to
    be considered a Web page.

    /Example 1: /A Web resource including all embedded images and media.

    /Example 2: /A Web mail program built using Asynchronous JavaScript
    and XML (AJAX). The program lives entirely at
    http://example.com/mail, but includes an inbox, a contacts area and
    a calendar. Links or buttons are provided that cause the inbox,
    contacts, or calendar to display, but do not change the URI of the
    page as a whole.

    /Example 3: /A customizable portal site, where users can choose
    content to display from a set of different content modules.

    /Example 4: /When you enter "http://shopping.example.com/" in your
    browser, you enter a movie-like interactive shopping environment
    where you visually move around in a store dragging products off of
    the shelves around you and into a visual shopping cart in front of
    you. Clicking on a product causes it to be demonstrated with a
    specification sheet floating alongside. This might be a single-page
    Web site or just one page within a Web site.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Focus Order*:
    Understanding SC 2.4.3

    *2.4.3
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#navigation-mechanisms-focus-order>
    Focus Order:* If a Web page
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> can be
    navigated sequentially
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#nav-seqdef> and the
    navigation sequences affect meaning or operation, focusable
    components receive focus in an order that preserves meaning and
    operability. (Level A)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that when users
navigate sequentially through content, they encounter information in an
order that is consistent with the meaning of the content and can be
operated from the keyboard. This reduces confusion by letting users form
a consistent mental model of the content. There may be different orders
that reflect logical relationships in the content. For example, moving
through components in a table one row at a time or one column at a time
both reflect the logical relationships in the content. Either order may
satisfy this Success Criterion.

The way that sequential navigation order is determined in Web content is
defined by the technology of the content. For example, simple HTML
defines sequential navigation via the notion of tabbing order. Dynamic
HTML may modify the navigation sequence using scripting along with the
addition of a tabindex attribute to allow focus to additional elements.
If no scripting or tabindex attributes are used, the navigation order is
the order that components appear in the content stream. (See HTML 4.01
Specification, section 17.11, "Giving focus to an element").

An example of keyboard navigation that is not the sequential navigation
addressed by this Success Criterion is using arrow key navigation to
traverse a tree component. The user can use the up and down arrow keys
to move from tree node to tree node. Pressing the right arrow key may
expand a node, then using the down arrow key, will move into the newly
expanded nodes. This navigation sequence follows the expected sequence
for a tree control - as additional items get expanded or collapsed, they
are added or removed from the navigation sequence.

The focus order may not be identical to the programmatically determined
reading order (see Success Criterion 1.3.2) as long as the user can
still understand and operate the Web page. Since there may be several
possible logical reading orders for the content, the focus order may
match any of them. However, when the order of a particular presentation
differs from the programmatically determined reading order, users of one
of these presentations may find it difficult to understand or operate
the Web page. Authors should carefully consider all these users as they
design their Web pages.

For example, a screen reader user interacts with the programmatically
determined reading order, while a sighted keyboard user interacts with
the visual presentation of the Web page. Care should be taken so that
the focus order makes sense to both of these sets of users and does not
appear to either of them to jump around randomly.

For clarity:

 1.

    Focusable components need to receive focus in an order that
    preserves meaning and operability only when navigation sequences
    affect meaning and operability.

 2.

    In those cases where it is required, there may be more than one
    order that will preserve meaning and operability.

 3.

    If there is more than one order that preserves meaning and
    operability, only one of them needs to be provided.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.4.3

These techniques benefit keyboard users who navigate documents
sequentially and expect the focus order to be consistent with the
sequential reading order.

  *

    People with mobility impairments who must rely on keyboard access
    for operating a page benefit from a logical, usable focus order.

  *

    People with disabilities that make reading difficult can become
    disoriented when tabbing takes focus someplace unexpected. They
    benefit from a logical focus order.

  *

    People with visual impairments can become disoriented when tabbing
    takes focus someplace unexpected or when they cannot easily find the
    content surrounding an interactive element.

  *

    Only a small portion of the page may be visible to an individual
    using a screen magnifier at a high level of magnification. Such a
    user may interpret a field in the wrong context if the focus order
    is not logical.


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.4.3

 1.

    On a web page that contains a tree of interactive controls, the user
    can use the up and down arrow keys to move from tree node to tree
    node. Pressing the right arrow key expands a node, then using the
    down arrow key moves into the newly expanded nodes.

 2.

    A Web page implements modeless dialogs via scripting. When the
    trigger button is activated, a dialog opens. The interactive
    elements in the dialog are inserted in the focus order immediately
    after the button. When the dialog is open, the focus order goes from
    the button to the elements of the dialog, then to the interactive
    element following the button. When the dialog is closed, the focus
    order goes from the button to the following element.

 3.

    A Web page implements modal dialogs via scripting. When the trigger
    button is activated, a dialog opens and focus is set to the first
    interactive element in the dialog. As long as the dialog is open,
    focus is limited to the elements of the dialog. When the dialog is
    dismissed, focus returns to the button or the element following the
    button.

 4.

    An HTML Web page is created with the left hand navigation occurring
    in the HTML after the main body content, and styled with CSS to
    appear on the left hand side of the page. This is done to allow
    focus to move to the main body content first without requiring
    tabIndex attributes or JavaScript.

    /Note: /While this example passes the Success Criterion, it is not
    necessarily true that all CSS positioning would. More complex
    positioning examples may or may not preserve meaning and operability

 5.

    The following example *fails to meet the Success Criterion*:

    A company's Web site includes a form that collects marketing data
    and allows users to subscribe to several newsletters published by
    the company. The section of the form for collecting marketing data
    includes fields such as name, street address, city, state or
    province, and postal code. Another section of the form includes
    several checkboxes so that users can indicate newsletters they want
    to receive. However, the tab order for the form skips between fields
    in different sections of the form, so that focus moves from the name
    field to a checkbox, then to the street address, then to another
    checkbox.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.4.3 - Focus Order

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G59: Placing the interactive elements in an order that follows
    sequences and relationships within the content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G59>

 2.

    Giving focus to elements in an order that follows sequences and
    relationships within the content using one of the following techniques:

      *

        H4: Creating a logical tab order through links, form controls,
        and objects
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H4> (HTML)

      *

        FLASH15: Using the tabIndex property to specify a logical
        reading order and a logical tab order in Flash
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH15>
        (Flash)

      *

        C27: Making the DOM order match the visual order
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C27> (CSS)

      *

        PDF3: Ensuring correct tab and reading order in PDF documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF3> (PDF)

      *

        SL34: Using the Silverlight Default Tab Sequence and Altering
        Tab Sequences With Properties
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL34>
        (Silverlight)

 3.

    Changing a Web page dynamically using one of the following techniques:

      *

        SCR26: Inserting dynamic content into the Document Object Model
        immediately following its trigger element
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR26>
        (Scripting)

      *

        SCR37: Creating Custom Dialogs in a Device Independent Way
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR37>
        (Scripting)

      *

        SCR27: Reordering page sections using the Document Object Model
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR27>
        (Scripting)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.4.3

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Providing a highly visible highlighting mechanism for links or
    controls when they receive keyboard focus (future link)

  *

    Creating alternative presentation orders (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 2.4.3

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.4.3 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F44: Failure of Success Criterion 2.4.3 due to using tabindex to
    create a tab order that does not preserve meaning and operability
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F44>

  *

    F85: Failure of Success Criterion 2.4.3 due to using dialogs or
    menus that are not adjacent to their trigger control in the
    sequential navigation order
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F85>


      Key Terms

Web page

    a non-embedded resource obtained from a single URI using HTTP plus
    any other resources that are used in the rendering or intended to be
    rendered together with it by a user agent
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>

    /Note 1: /Although any "other resources" would be rendered together
    with the primary resource, they would not necessarily be rendered
    simultaneously with each other.

    /Note 2: /For the purposes of conformance with these guidelines, a
    resource must be "non-embedded" within the scope of conformance to
    be considered a Web page.

    /Example 1: /A Web resource including all embedded images and media.

    /Example 2: /A Web mail program built using Asynchronous JavaScript
    and XML (AJAX). The program lives entirely at
    http://example.com/mail, but includes an inbox, a contacts area and
    a calendar. Links or buttons are provided that cause the inbox,
    contacts, or calendar to display, but do not change the URI of the
    page as a whole.

    /Example 3: /A customizable portal site, where users can choose
    content to display from a set of different content modules.

    /Example 4: /When you enter "http://shopping.example.com/" in your
    browser, you enter a movie-like interactive shopping environment
    where you visually move around in a store dragging products off of
    the shelves around you and into a visual shopping cart in front of
    you. Clicking on a product causes it to be demonstrated with a
    specification sheet floating alongside. This might be a single-page
    Web site or just one page within a Web site.

navigated sequentially

    navigated in the order defined for advancing focus (from one element
    to the next) using a keyboard interface
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#keybrd-interfacedef>

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Link Purpose (In Context)*:
    Understanding SC 2.4.4

    *2.4.4
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#navigation-mechanisms-refs>
    Link Purpose (In Context):* The purpose of each link
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#linkpurposedef> can
    be determined from the link text alone or from the link text
    together with its programmatically determined link context
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#pdlinkcontextdef>,
    except where the purpose of the link would be ambiguous to users in
    general
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#ambiguouslinkdef>.
    (Level A)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to help users understand the
purpose of each link so they can decide whether they want to follow the
link. Whenever possible, provide link text that identifies the purpose
of the link without needing additional context. Assistive technology has
the ability to provide users with a list of links that are on the Web
page. Link text that is as meaningful as possible will aid users who
want to choose from this list of links. Meaningful link text also helps
those who wish to tab from link to link. Meaningful links help users
choose which links to follow without requiring complicated strategies to
understand the page.

The text of, or associated with, the link is intended to describe the
purpose of the link. In cases where the link takes one to a document or
a web application, the name of the document or web application would be
sufficient to describe the purpose of the link (which is to take you to
the document or web application). Note that it is not required to use
the name of the document or web application; other things may also
describe the purpose of the link.

Success Criterion 2.4.2
<https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/navigation-mechanisms-title.html>
deals with the titles of pages. Here also, the name of a document or web
application being presented on the page would be sufficient to describe
the purpose of the page. Having the link and the title agree, or be very
similar, is good practice and provides continuity between the link
'clicked on' and the web page that the user lands on.

In some situations, authors may want to provide part of the description
of the link in logically related text that provides the context for the
link. In this case the user should be able to identify the purpose of
the link without moving focus from the link. In other words, they can
arrive on a link and find out more about it without losing their place.
This can be achieved by putting the description of the link in the same
sentence, paragraph, list item, or table cell as the link, or in the
table header cell for a link in a data table, because these are directly
associated with the link itself. Alternatively, authors may choose to
use an ARIA technique to associate additional text on the page with the
link.

This context will be most usable if it precedes the link. (For instance,
if you must use ambiguous link text, it is better to put it at the end
of the sentence that describes its destination, rather than putting the
ambiguous phrase at the beginning of the sentence.) If the description
follows the link, there can be confusion and difficulty for screen
reader users who are reading through the page in order (top to bottom).

It is a best practice for links with the same destination to have
consistent descriptions (and this is a requirement per Success Criterion
3.2.4
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#consistent-behavior-consistent-functionality>
for pages in a set). It is also a best practice for links with different
purposes and destinations to have different descriptions.

The Success Criterion includes an exception for links for which the
purpose of the link cannot be determined from the information on the Web
page. In this situation, the person with the disability is not at a
disadvantage; there is no additional context available to understand the
link purpose. However, whatever amount of context is available on the
Web page that can be used to interpret the purpose of the link must be
made available in the link text or programmatically associated with the
link to satisfy the Success Criterion.

/Note: /There may be situations where the purpose of the link is is
supposed to be unknown or obscured. For instance, a game may have links
identified only as door #1, door #2, and door #3. This link text would
be sufficient because the purpose of the links is to create suspense for
all users.

See also /Understanding Success Criterion 2.4.9 Link Purpose (Link Only)
<#navigation-mechanisms-link>/.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.4.4

  *

    This Success Criterion helps people with motion impairment by
    letting them skip links that they are not interested in, avoiding
    the keystrokes needed to visit the referenced content and then
    returning to the current content.

  *

    People with cognitive limitations will not become disoriented by
    multiple means of navigation to and from content they are not
    interested in.

  *

    People with visual disabilities will be able to determine the
    purpose of a link by exploring the link's context.


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.4.4

  *

    *A link contains text that gives a description of the information at
    that URI*

    A page contains the sentence "There was much bloodshed during the
    Medieval period of history." Where "Medieval period of history" is a
    link.

  *

    *A link is preceded by a text description of the information at that
    URI*

    A page contains the sentence "Learn more about the Government of
    Ireland's Commission on Electronic Voting at Go Vote!" where "Go
    Vote!" is a link.

  *

    *Both an icon and text are included in the same link*

    An icon of a voting machine and the text "Government of Ireland's
    Commission of Electronic Voting" are combined to make a single link.
    The alt text for the icon is null, since the purpose of the link is
    already described by the text of the link next to the icon.

  *

    *A list of book titles*

    A list of books is available in three formats: HTML, PDF, and mp3 (a
    recording of a person reading the book). To avoid hearing the title
    of each book three times (once for each format), the first link for
    each book is the title of the book, the second link says "PDF" and
    the third says, "mp3."

  *

    *News article summaries*

    A Web page contains a collection of news articles. The main page
    lists the first few sentences of each article, followed by a "Read
    more" link. A screen reader command to read the current paragraph
    provides the context to interpret the purpose of the link.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Using Link Titles to Help Users Predict Where They Are Going
    <https://www.nngroup.com/articles/using-link-titles-to-help-users-predict-where-they-are-going/>


  *

    WebAIM Techniques for Hypertext Links
    <http://webaim.org/techniques/hypertext/>

  *

    Hidden barriers - out of sight
    <http://www.rnib.org.uk/blogs/expert-series?Name=Hidden%20barriers>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.4.4 - Link Purpose
      (In Context)

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G91: Providing link text that describes the purpose of a link
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G91>

 2.

    H30: Providing link text that describes the purpose of a link for
    anchor elements
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H30> (HTML)

 3.

    H24: Providing text alternatives for the area elements of image maps
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H24> (HTML)

 4.

    FLASH27: Providing button labels that describe the purpose of a
    button
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH27> (Flash)

 5.

    Allowing the user to choose short or long link text using one of the
    techniques below:

      *

        G189: Providing a control near the beginning of the Web page
        that changes the link text
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G189>

      *

        SCR30: Using scripts to change the link text
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR30>
        (Scripting)

      *

        FLASH7: Using scripting to change control labels
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH7>
        (Flash)

 6.

    G53: Identifying the purpose of a link using link text combined with
    the text of the enclosing sentence
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G53>

 7.

    Providing a supplemental description of the purpose of a link using
    one of the following techniques:

      *

        H33: Supplementing link text with the title attribute
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H33> (HTML)

      *

        C7: Using CSS to hide a portion of the link text
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C7> (CSS)

 8.

    Identifying the purpose of a link using link text combined with
    programmatically determined link context using one of the following
    techniques:

      *

        ARIA7: Using aria-labelledby for link purpose
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA7> (ARIA)

      *

        ARIA8: Using aria-label for link purpose
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA8> (ARIA)

      *

        H77: Identifying the purpose of a link using link text combined
        with its enclosing list item
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H77> (HTML)

      *

        H78: Identifying the purpose of a link using link text combined
        with its enclosing paragraph
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H78> (HTML)

      *

        H79: Identifying the purpose of a link in a data table using the
        link text combined with its enclosing table cell and associated
        table header cells
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H79> (HTML)

      *

        H81: Identifying the purpose of a link in a nested list using
        link text combined with the parent list item under which the
        list is nested
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H81> (HTML)

 9.

    G91: Providing link text that describes the purpose of a link
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G91> *AND*
    Semantically indicating links using one of the following techniques:

      *

        PDF11: Providing links and link text using the Link annotation
        and the /Link structure element in PDF documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF11> (PDF)

      *

        PDF13: Providing replacement text using the /Alt entry for links
        in PDF documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF13> (PDF)

      *

        SL18: Providing Text Equivalent for Nontext Silverlight Controls
        With AutomationProperties.Name
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL18>
        (Silverlight)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.4.4

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    H2: Combining adjacent image and text links for the same resource
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H2> (HTML)

  *

    FLASH5: Combining adjacent image and text buttons for the same
    resource
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH5> (Flash)

  *

    H80: Identifying the purpose of a link using link text combined with
    the preceding heading element
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H80> (HTML)


        Common Failures for SC 2.4.4

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.4.4 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F63: Failure of Success Criterion 2.4.4 due to providing link
    context only in content that is not related to the link
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F63>

  *

    F89: Failure of Success Criteria 2.4.4, 2.4.9 and 4.1.2 due to not
    providing an accessible name for an image which is the only content
    in a link <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F89>


      Key Terms

ambiguous to users in general

    the purpose cannot be determined from the link and all information
    of the Web page presented to the user simultaneously with the link
    (i.e., readers without disabilities would not know what a link would
    do until they activated it)

    /Example: /The word guava in the following sentence "One of the
    notable exports is guava" is a link. The link could lead to a
    definition of guava, a chart listing the quantity of guava exported
    or a photograph of people harvesting guava. Until the link is
    activated, all readers are unsure and the person with a disability
    is not at any disadvantage.

link purpose

    nature of the result obtained by activating a hyperlink

programmatically determined link context

    additional information that can be programmatically determined
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#programmaticallydetermineddef>
    from relationships
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#relationshipsdef>
    with a link, combined with the link text, and presented to users in
    different modalities

    /Example: /In HTML, information that is programmatically
    determinable from a link in English includes text that is in the
    same paragraph, list, or table cell as the link or in a table header
    cell that is associated with the table cell that contains the link.

    /Note: /Since screen readers interpret punctuation, they can also
    provide the context from the current sentence, when the focus is on
    a link in that sentence.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Multiple Ways*:
    Understanding SC 2.4.5

    *2.4.5
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#navigation-mechanisms-mult-loc>
    Multiple Ways:* More than one way is available to locate a Web page
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> within a
    set of Web pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#set-of-web-pagesdef>
    except where the Web Page is the result of, or a step in, a process
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#processdef>. (Level AA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to make it possible for users to
locate content in a manner that best meets their needs. Users may find
one technique easier or more comprehensible to use than another.

Even small sites should provide users some means of orientation. For a
three or four page site, with all pages linked from the home page, it
may be sufficient simply to provide links from and to the home page
where the links on the home page can also serve as a site map.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.4.5

  *

    Providing an opportunity to navigate sites in more than one manner
    can help people find information faster. Users with visual
    impairments may find it easier to navigate to the correct part of
    the site by using a search, rather than scrolling through a large
    navigation bar using a screen magnifier or screen reader. A person
    with cognitive disabilities may prefer a table of contents or site
    map that provides an overview of the site rather than reading and
    traversing through several Web pages. Some users may prefer to
    explore the site in a sequential manner, moving from Web page to Web
    page in order to best understand the concepts and layout.

  *

    Individuals with cognitive limitations may find it easier to use
    search features than to use a hierarchical navigation scheme that be
    difficult to understand.


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.4.5

  *

    *A search mechanism.*

    A large food processing company provides a site containing recipes
    created using its products. The site provides a search mechanism to
    search for recipes using a particular ingredient. In addition, it
    provides a list box that lists several categories of foods. A user
    may type "soup" in to the search engine or may select "soup" from
    the list box to go to a page with a list of recipes made from the
    company's soup products

  *

    *Links between Web pages.*

    A local hair salon has created a Web site to promote its services.
    The site contains only five Web pages. There are links on each Web
    page to sequentially move forward or backward through the Web pages.
    In addition, each Web page contains a list of links to reach each of
    the other Web pages.

  *

    *Where content is a result of a process or task - Funds transfer
    confirmation.*

    An on-line banking site allows fund transfer between accounts via
    the Web. There is no other way to locate the confirmation of fund
    transfer until the account owner completes the transfer.

  *

    *Where content is a result of a process or task - Search engine
    results.*

    A search engine provides the search results based on user input.
    There is no other way to locate the search results except to perform
    the search process itself.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.4.5 - Multiple Ways

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    Using two or more of the following techniques:

      *

        G125: Providing links to navigate to related Web pages
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G125>

      *

        G64: Providing a Table of Contents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G64>

      *

        PDF2: Creating bookmarks in PDF documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF2> (PDF)

      *

        G63: Providing a site map
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G63>

      *

        G161: Providing a search function to help users find content
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G161>

      *

        G126: Providing a list of links to all other Web pages
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G126>

      *

        G185: Linking to all of the pages on the site from the home page
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G185>


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.4.5

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    H59: Using the link element and navigation tools
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H59> (HTML)

  *

    Including information about presentation modes in tables of contents
    and concept maps (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 2.4.5

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.4.5 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

Web page

    a non-embedded resource obtained from a single URI using HTTP plus
    any other resources that are used in the rendering or intended to be
    rendered together with it by a user agent
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>

    /Note 1: /Although any "other resources" would be rendered together
    with the primary resource, they would not necessarily be rendered
    simultaneously with each other.

    /Note 2: /For the purposes of conformance with these guidelines, a
    resource must be "non-embedded" within the scope of conformance to
    be considered a Web page.

    /Example 1: /A Web resource including all embedded images and media.

    /Example 2: /A Web mail program built using Asynchronous JavaScript
    and XML (AJAX). The program lives entirely at
    http://example.com/mail, but includes an inbox, a contacts area and
    a calendar. Links or buttons are provided that cause the inbox,
    contacts, or calendar to display, but do not change the URI of the
    page as a whole.

    /Example 3: /A customizable portal site, where users can choose
    content to display from a set of different content modules.

    /Example 4: /When you enter "http://shopping.example.com/" in your
    browser, you enter a movie-like interactive shopping environment
    where you visually move around in a store dragging products off of
    the shelves around you and into a visual shopping cart in front of
    you. Clicking on a product causes it to be demonstrated with a
    specification sheet floating alongside. This might be a single-page
    Web site or just one page within a Web site.

process

    series of user actions where each action is required in order to
    complete an activity

    /Example 1: /Successful use of a series of Web pages on a shopping
    site requires users to view alternative products, prices and offers,
    select products, submit an order, provide shipping information and
    provide payment information.

    /Example 2: /An account registration page requires successful
    completion of a Turing test before the registration form can be
    accessed.

set of Web pages

    collection of Web pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> that
    share a common purpose and that are created by the same author,
    group or organization

    /Note: /Different language versions would be considered different
    sets of Web pages.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Headings and Labels*:
    Understanding SC 2.4.6

    *2.4.6
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#navigation-mechanisms-descriptive>
    Headings and Labels:* Headings and labels
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#labeldef> describe
    topic or purpose. (Level AA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to help users understand what
information is contained in Web pages and how that information is
organized. When headings are clear and descriptive, users can find the
information they seek more easily, and they can understand the
relationships between different parts of the content more easily.
Descriptive labels help users identify specific components within the
content.

Labels and headings do not need to be lengthy. A word, or even a single
character, may suffice if it provides an appropriate cue to finding and
navigating content.

/Note: /This success criterion does not require headings or labels. This
success criterion requires that if headings or labels are provided, they
be descriptive. Also note that, if headings or labels are provided, they
must meet /Understanding Success Criterion 1.3.1 Info and Relationships
<#content-structure-separation-programmatic>/.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.4.6

  *

    Descriptive headings are especially helpful for users who have
    disabilities that make reading slow and for people with limited
    short-term memory. These people benefit when section titles make it
    possible to predict what each section contains.

  *

    People who have difficulty using their hands or who experience pain
    when doing so will benefit from techniques that reduce the number of
    keystrokes required to reach the content they need.

  *

    This Success Criterion helps people who use screen readers by
    ensuring that labels and headings are meaningful when read out of
    context, for example, in a Table of Contents, or when jumping from
    heading to heading within a page.

    This Success Criterion may also help users with low vision who can
    see only a few words at a time.


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.4.6

  *

    *A news site.*

    The home page of a news site lists the headlines for the top stories
    of the hour. Under each heading are the first 35 words of the story
    and a link to the full article. Each headline gives a clear idea of
    the article's subject.

  *

    *A guide on how to write well*

    A guide on writing contains the following section titles: How To
    Write Well, Cut Out Useless Words, Identify Unnecessary Words, etc.
    The section headings are clear and concise and the structure of the
    information is reflected in the structure of the headings.

  *

    *Consistent headings in different articles*

    A Web site contains papers from a conference. Submissions to the
    conference are required to have the following organization: Summary,
    Introduction, [other sections unique to this article], Conclusion,
    Author Biography, Glossary, and Bibliography. The title of each Web
    page clearly identifies the article it contains, creating a useful
    balance between the uniqueness of the articles and the consistency
    of the section headings.

  *

    *A form asking the name of the user*

    A form asks the name of the user. It consists of two input fields to
    ask for the first and last name. The first field is labeled "First
    name", the second is labeled "Last name"."


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    How Users Read on the Web
    <https://www.nngroup.com/articles/how-users-read-on-the-web/> A
    study showing that most users scan Web pages rather than reading
    them word by word.

  *

    Applying Writing Guidelines to Web Pages
    <https://www.nngroup.com/articles/applying-writing-guidelines-web-pages/>
    A report on the effects of making Web sites concise, easy to scan,
    and objective.


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.4.6 - Headings and
      Labels

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G130: Providing descriptive headings
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G130>

 2.

    G131: Providing descriptive labels
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G131>

/Note: / Headings and labels must be programmatically determined, per
Success Criterion 1.3.1
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#content-structure-separation-programmatic>.


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.4.6

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Using unique section headings in a Web Page (future link)

  *

    Starting section headings with unique information (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 2.4.6

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.4.6 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

label

    text <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#textdef> or
    other component with a text alternative
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#text-altdef> that is
    presented to a user to identify a component within Web content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#contentdef>

    /Note 1: / A label is presented to all users whereas the name
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#namedef> may be
    hidden and only exposed by assistive technology. In many (but not
    all) cases the name and the label are the same.

    /Note 2: /The term label is not limited to the label element in HTML.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Focus Visible*:
    Understanding SC 2.4.7

    *2.4.7
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#navigation-mechanisms-focus-visible>
    Focus Visible:* Any keyboard operable user interface has a mode of
    operation where the keyboard focus indicator is visible. (Level AA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The purpose of this success criterion is to help a person know which
element has the keyboard focus.

The purpose of this success criterion is to help a person know which
element among multiple elements has the keyboard focus. If there is only
one keyboard actionable control on the screen, the success criterion
would be met because the visual design presents only one keyboard
actionable item.

Note that a keyboard focus indicator can take different forms. One
common way is a caret within the text field to indicate that the text
field has the keyboard focus. Another is a visual change to a button to
indicate that that button has the keyboard focus.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.4.7

  *

    This Success Criterion helps anyone who relies on the keyboard to
    operate the page, by letting them visually determine the component
    on which keyboard operations will interact at any point in time.

  *

    People with attention limitations, short term memory limitations, or
    limitations in executive processes benefit by being able to discover
    where the focus is located.


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.4.7

  *

    When text fields receive focus, a vertical bar is displayed in the
    field, indicating that the user can insert text, OR all of the text
    is highlighted, indicating that the user can type over the text.

  *

    When a user interface control receives focus, a visible border is
    displayed around it.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Styling form controls with CSS, revisited
    <http://www.456bereastreet.com/archive/200701/styling_form_controls_with_css_revisited/>



      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.4.7 - Focus Visible

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G149: Using user interface components that are highlighted by the
    user agent when they receive focus
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G149>

 2.

    C15: Using CSS to change the presentation of a user interface
    component when it receives focus
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C15> (CSS)

 3.

    G165: Using the default focus indicator for the platform so that
    high visibility default focus indicators will carry over
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G165>

 4.

    G195: Using an author-supplied, highly visible focus indicator
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G195>

 5.

    SCR31: Using script to change the background color or border of the
    element with focus
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR31>
    (Scripting)

 6.

    FLASH20: Reskinning Flash components to provide highly visible focus
    indication
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH20> (Flash)

 7.

    SL2: Changing The Visual Focus Indicator in Silverlight
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL2>
    (Silverlight)

 8.

    SL7: Designing a Focused Visual State for Custom Silverlight
    Controls <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL7>
    (Silverlight)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.4.7

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Highlighting a link or control when the mouse hovers over it (future
    link)

  *

    Providing a highly visible highlighting mechanism for links or
    controls when they receive keyboard focus (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 2.4.7

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.4.7 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F55: Failure of Success Criteria 2.1.1, 2.4.7, and 3.2.1 due to
    using script to remove focus when focus is received
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F55>

  *

    F78: Failure of Success Criterion 2.4.7 due to styling element
    outlines and borders in a way that removes or renders non-visible
    the visual focus indicator
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F78>

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Location*:
    Understanding SC 2.4.8

    *2.4.8
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#navigation-mechanisms-location>
    Location:* Information about the user's location within a set of Web
    pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#set-of-web-pagesdef>
    is available. (Level AAA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to provide a way for the user to
orient herself within a set of Web pages, a Web site, or a Web
application and find related information.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.4.8

  *

    This Success Criterion is helpful for people with a short attention
    span who may become confused when following a long series of
    navigation steps to a Web page. It is also helpful when a user
    follows a link directly to a page deep within a set of Web pages and
    needs to navigate that Web site to understand the content of that
    page or to find more related information.


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.4.8

  *

    *Links to help user determine their location in a site*

    A research group is part of an educational department at a
    university. The group's home page links to the department home page
    and the university's home page.

  *

    *A breadcrumb trail*

    A portal Web site organizes topics into categories. As the user
    navigates through categories and subcategories, a breadcrumb trail
    shows the current location in the hierarchy of categories. Each page
    also contains a link to the portal home page.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    The Sound of the Accessible Title Tag Separator
    <http://www.standards-schmandards.com/2004/title-text-separators/>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.4.8 - Location

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G65: Providing a breadcrumb trail
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G65>

 2.

    G63: Providing a site map
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G63>

 3.

    G128: Indicating current location within navigation bars
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G128>

 4.

    G127: Identifying a Web page's relationship to a larger collection
    of Web pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G127> using
    one of the following techniques:

      *

        H59: Using the link element and navigation tools
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H59> (HTML)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.4.8

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    PDF14: Providing running headers and footers in PDF documents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF14> (PDF)

  *

    PDF17: Specifying consistent page numbering for PDF documents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF17> (PDF)

  *

    Providing a link to the home page or main page (future link)

  *

    Providing an easy-to-read version of information about the
    organization of a set of Web pages (future link)

  *

    Providing a sign language version of information about the
    organization of a set of Web pages (future link)

  *

    Providing an easy-to-read summary at the beginning of each section
    of content (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 2.4.8

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.4.8 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

set of Web pages

    collection of Web pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> that
    share a common purpose and that are created by the same author,
    group or organization

    /Note: /Different language versions would be considered different
    sets of Web pages.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Link Purpose (Link Only)*:
    Understanding SC 2.4.9

    *2.4.9
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#navigation-mechanisms-link>
    Link Purpose (Link Only):* A mechanism
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#mechanismdef> is
    available to allow the purpose of each link to be identified from
    link text alone, except where the purpose of the link would be
    ambiguous to users in general
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#ambiguouslinkdef>.
    (Level AAA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to help users understand the
purpose of each link in the content, so they can decide whether they
want to follow it. Best practice is that links with the same destination
would have the same descriptions, but links with different purposes and
destinations would have different descriptions (see also Success
Criterion 3.2.4
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#consistent-behavior-consistent-functionality>
which calls for consistency in identifying components that have the same
functionality). Because the purpose of a link can be identified from its
link text, links can be understood when they are out of context, such as
when the user agent provides a list of all the links on a page.

The text in the link is intended to describe the purpose of the link. In
cases where the link takes one to a document or a web application, the
name of the document or web application would be sufficient to describe
the purpose of the link (which is to take you to the document or web
application). Note that it is not required to use the name of the
document or web application; other things may also describe the purpose
of the link.

Success Criterion 2.4.2
<https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/navigation-mechanisms-title.html>
deals with the titles of pages. Here also, the name of a document or web
application being presented on the page would be sufficient to describe
the purpose of the page. Having the link and the title agree, or be very
similar, is good practice and provides continuity between the link
'clicked on' and the web page that the user lands on.

The Success Criterion includes an exception for links for which the
purpose of the link cannot be determined from the information on the Web
page. In this situation, the person with the disability is not at a
disadvantage; there is no additional context available to understand the
link purpose. However, whatever amount of context is available on the
Web page that can be used to interpret the purpose of the link must be
made available in the link text to satisfy the Success Criterion.

The word "mechanism" is used to allow authors to either make all links
fully understandable out of context by default or to provide a way to
make them this way. This is done because for some pages, making the
links all unambiguous by themselves makes the pages easier for some
users and harder for others. Providing the ability to make the links
unambiguous (by them selves) or not provides both users with
disabilities with the ability to use the page in the format that best
meets their needs.

For example: A page listing 100 book titles along with links to download
the books in HTML, PDF, DOC, TXT, MP3, or AAC might ordinarily be viewed
as the title of the book as a link with the words "in HTML" after it.
then the sentence "Also available in: " followed by a series of short
links with text of "HTML", "PDF", "DOC", "TXT", "MP3", and "AAC". At
Level 3, some users could opt to view the page this way - because they
would find the page harder to understand or slower to use if the full
title of the book were included in each of the links. Others could opt
to view the page with the full title as part of each of the links so
that each link was understandable in itself. Both the former and the
latter groups could include people with visual or cognitive disabilities
that used different techniques to browse or that had different types or
severities of disability.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.4.9

  *

    This Success Criterion helps people with motion impairment by
    letting them skip Web pages that they are not interested in,
    avoiding the keystrokes needed to visit the referenced content and
    then return to the current content.

  *

    People with cognitive limitations will not become disoriented by
    extra navigation to and from content they are not interested in.

  *

    People with visual disabilities will benefit from not losing their
    place in the content when they return to the original page. The
    screen reader's list of links is more useful for finding information
    because the target of the links are described.


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.4.9

  *

    *Both an icon and text are included in the same link*

    An icon of a voting machine and the text "Government of Ireland's
    Commission of Electronic Voting" are combined to make a single link.

  *

    *A list of book titles*

    A list of books is available in three formats: HTML, PDF, and mp3 (a
    recording of a person reading the book). The title of the book is
    followed by links to the different formats. The rendered text for
    each link is just the format type, but the text associated with each
    link includes the title as well as the format; for instance,
    "Gulliver's Travels, MP3."


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Using Link Titles to Help Users Predict Where They Are Going
    <https://www.nngroup.com/articles/using-link-titles-to-help-users-predict-where-they-are-going/>


  *

    WebAIM Techniques for Hypertext Links
    <http://webaim.org/techniques/hypertext/>

  *

    Hidden barriers - out of sight
    <http://www.rnib.org.uk/blogs/expert-series?Name=Hidden%20barriers>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.4.9 - Link Purpose
      (Link Only)

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    ARIA8: Using aria-label for link purpose
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA8> (ARIA)

 2.

    G91: Providing link text that describes the purpose of a link
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G91>

 3.

    H30: Providing link text that describes the purpose of a link for
    anchor elements
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H30> (HTML)

 4.

    H24: Providing text alternatives for the area elements of image maps
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H24> (HTML)

 5.

    FLASH27: Providing button labels that describe the purpose of a
    button
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH27> (Flash)

 6.

    Allowing the user to choose short or long link text using one of the
    techniques below:

      *

        G189: Providing a control near the beginning of the Web page
        that changes the link text
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G189>

      *

        SCR30: Using scripts to change the link text
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR30>
        (Scripting)

      *

        FLASH7: Using scripting to change control labels
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH7>
        (Flash)

 7.

    Providing a supplemental description of the purpose of a link using
    one of the following techniques:

      *

        C7: Using CSS to hide a portion of the link text
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C7> (CSS)

 8.

    Semantically indicating links using one of the following techniques:

      *

        PDF11: Providing links and link text using the Link annotation
        and the /Link structure element in PDF documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF11> (PDF)

      *

        PDF13: Providing replacement text using the /Alt entry for links
        in PDF documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF13> (PDF)

      *

        SL18: Providing Text Equivalent for Nontext Silverlight Controls
        With AutomationProperties.Name
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL18>
        (Silverlight)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.4.9

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    H2: Combining adjacent image and text links for the same resource
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H2> (HTML)

  *

    FLASH5: Combining adjacent image and text buttons for the same
    resource
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH5> (Flash)

  *

    H33: Supplementing link text with the title attribute
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H33> (HTML)


        Common Failures for SC 2.4.9

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.4.9 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F84: Failure of Success Criterion 2.4.9 due to using a non-specific
    link such as "click here" or "more" without a mechanism to change
    the link text to specific text.
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F84>

  *

    F89: Failure of Success Criteria 2.4.4, 2.4.9 and 4.1.2 due to not
    providing an accessible name for an image which is the only content
    in a link <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F89>


      Key Terms

ambiguous to users in general

    the purpose cannot be determined from the link and all information
    of the Web page presented to the user simultaneously with the link
    (i.e., readers without disabilities would not know what a link would
    do until they activated it)

    /Example: /The word guava in the following sentence "One of the
    notable exports is guava" is a link. The link could lead to a
    definition of guava, a chart listing the quantity of guava exported
    or a photograph of people harvesting guava. Until the link is
    activated, all readers are unsure and the person with a disability
    is not at any disadvantage.

mechanism

    process <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#processdef>
    or technique for achieving a result

    /Note 1: /The mechanism may be explicitly provided in the content,
    or may be relied upon
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#reliedupondef> to be
    provided by either the platform or by user agents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>,
    including assistive technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#atdef>.

    /Note 2: /The mechanism needs to meet all success criteria for the
    conformance level claimed.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Section Headings*:
    Understanding SC 2.4.10

    *2.4.10
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#navigation-mechanisms-headings>
    Section Headings:* Section
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#sectiondef> headings
    are used to organize the content. (Level AAA)

    /Note 1: /"Heading" is used in its general sense and includes titles
    and other ways to add a heading to different types of content.

    /Note 2: /This success criterion covers sections within writing, not
    user interface components
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#user-interface-componentdef>.
    User Interface components are covered under Success Criterion 4.1.2
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#ensure-compat-rsv>.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to provide headings for sections
of a Web page, when the page is organized into sections. For instance,
long documents are often divided into a variety of chapters, chapters
have subtopics and subtopics are divided into various sections, sections
into paragraphs, etc. When such sections exist, they need to have
headings that introduce them. This clearly indicates the organization of
the content, facilitates navigation within the content, and provides
mental "handles" that aid in comprehension of the content. Other page
elements may complement headings to improve presentation (e.g.,
horizontal rules and boxes), but visual presentation is not sufficient
to identify document sections.

This provision is included at Level AAA because it cannot be applied to
all types of content and it may not always be possible to insert
headings. For example, when posting a pre-existing document to the Web,
headings that an author did not include in the original document cannot
be inserted. Or, a long letter would often cover different topics, but
putting headings into a letter would be very strange. However, if a
document can be broken up into sections with headings, it facilitates
both understanding and navigation.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.4.10

  *

    People who are blind will know when they have moved from one section
    of a Web page to another and will know the purpose of each section.

  *

    People with some learning disabilities will be able to use the
    headings to understand the overall organization of the page content
    more easily.

  *

    People who navigate content by keyboard will be able to jump the
    focus from heading to heading, enabling them to find quickly content
    of interest.

  *

    In pages where content in part of the page updates, headings can be
    used to quickly access updated content.


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.4.10

  *

    A menu contains different sections for different courses. Each
    section has a heading: Appetizers, Salad, Soup, Entree, Dessert.

  *

    A Web application contains a settings page that is divided into
    groups of related settings. Each section contains a heading
    describing the class of settings.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    WebAIM: Semantic Structure
    <http://webaim.org/techniques/semanticstructure/>

  *

    Heading Tags <http://accessibility.psu.edu/headingshtml/>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.4.10 - Section
      Headings

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G141: Organizing a page using headings
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G141>

 2.

    H69: Providing heading elements at the beginning of each section of
    content <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H69>
    (HTML)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.4.10

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Using the 'live' property to mark live regions (future link) (ARIA)

  *

    Providing mechanisms to navigate to different sections of the
    content of a Web page (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 2.4.10

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.4.10 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

section

    A self-contained portion of written content that deals with one or
    more related topics or thoughts

    /Note: /A section may consist of one or more paragraphs and include
    graphics, tables, lists and sub-sections.

user interface component

    a part of the content that is perceived by users as a single control
    for a distinct function

    /Note 1: /Multiple user interface components may be implemented as a
    single programmatic element. Components here is not tied to
    programming techniques, but rather to what the user perceives as
    separate controls.

    /Note 2: /User interface components include form elements and links
    as well as components generated by scripts.

    /Example: /An applet has a "control" that can be used to move
    through content by line or page or random access. Since each of
    these would need to have a name and be settable independently, they
    would each be a "user interface component."
